
---
title: "1CH 13"
date: 2017-12-18 01:51:45 +00:00
book: 1CH
draft: false
---

## 1CH 13:10

God had commanded in Exodus 25:12-15 that the ark should be carried on poles through the four rings. The instruction was followed by the Israelites during the times of Moses and Aaron up until the Philistines captured it.

The Philistines did send it back on cows because they didn?t know better but they at least showed respect and God honoured it by allowing their guess [if the oxen went towards the land of Israel] to come to pass to show that it was him (God) who struck the Philistines with tumours.

This time, Israel copied the Philistines and disobeyed God in the instructions laid down by God with how the ark was to be carried.

In old times, men of honour especially kings were carried on the shoulders of servants. The servant would carry the poles that supports the seat. The ark was to be honoured as it symbolised God?s presence but instead oxen were riding the ark.

Even though Uzzah had good intentions for preventing the ark from falling, He wanted to support God. Even though the Israelites were rejoicing with all their might, it didn?t stop Uzzah from being punished for his irreverence.

Perhaps the oxen shook the ark because they saw food to eat because the oxen were near the threshing floor of Chidon (where wheat was separated).

God has no tolerance for irreverence especially where his presence is very tangible. It leads to death.

- Aaron?s sons (Nadab and Abihu) offered strange fires God did not command them. The result was instant death. (Leviticus 10:1-3)

- Uzzah touched the ark. The result was instant death (1 Chronicles 13:7-10)

- Ananias and Sapphira lied to the Holy Ghost through Peter even though the property they sold was theirs. The result was instant death. (Acts 5:1-11)

- Moses disobeyed God and struck the rock when God told him to speak to it. Moses didn?t enter the promised land because of it (Numbers 20:7-13)

- David giving the enemies of God opportunity to blaspheme (2 Samuel 12:14), Bathsheba?s son died and David?s murder and adultery cost three other lives of his children. David also would have died had he not repented immediately (2 Samuel 12:13). If David had used Saul?s mentality of arguing before proven wrong, he probably would have died instantly.


There is no excuse to not sanctify and glorify  the name of God in his presence. God is very Holy and will not tolerate it. The result can be devastating.

**Related verses**: NUMBERS 4:15, 1 CHRONICLES 13:9-10. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2792617141588451741)

