
---
title: "1CH 15"
date: 2020-04-17 03:06:58 +00:00
draft: false
book: 1CH
---

## 1CH 15:22

Skill is important in worshipping God but he wasn't just a skilled singer, he was also a Levite chosen of God in the things concerning ministering the things of God.

Levites were in charge of the Holy things and in carrying the ark but according to their division

Related verses: 1 Chronicles 15:22. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3409439146493338150)


## 1CH 15:2

After the right measures were taken, no death occurred in transporting the ark. in the first instance when they transported the ark on a cow, the cow probably smelt grain when they came to the threshing floor and a cow is a cow, it wants to eat at the expense of transporting the ark

Related verses: 1 Chronicles 15:2. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3409435755893481983)


## 1CH 15:29

Have you been to church and seen during praise and worship when everyone is dancing. There is that one person folding their hands and looking unconcerned. You may think that is maturity but it?s not.

Michal despised David because he was dancing in his priestly ephod [a close-fitting, sleeveless pullover usually of hip length] rather than his kingly robe and must have taught his display was unworthy of a king?s.

Sometimes we look at the person God has put in charge of his church. He may be short, not good looking or poor but humble yourself and accept the person God has placed over you. 

Michal must have thought I only despised David but it affected God as well and she became barren from that point onwards

Related verses: 1 CHRONICLES 15:29. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2793989805200630563)


## 1CH 15:26

Comparison between the first and second instance of transporting the ark.

1. Ark was carried by oxen
2. Ark was carried by the levites 

1. Uzzah tried to help the ark from falling 
2. God was helping the levites who carried the ark

1. Uzzah died for his irreverence 
2. No one died. They sacrificed 7 bulls and 7 rams


God didn?t need Uzzah?s help as we see in the second instance that God was helping the levites who carried the ark.

Related verses: 1 CHRONICLES 15:26. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2793986489888531218)


## 1CH 15:13

We must seek God?s will when attempting to do something concerning him

Related verses: 1 CHRONICLES 15:13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2792892556534080205)

