
---
title: "1KI 10"
date: 2020-06-26 02:40:55+00:00
book: 1KI
draft: false
---

## 1KI 10:10

Gold, frankincense and myrrh were gifts given to kings. it was worthy of Jesus to receive those gifts because he was the king of kings

**Related verses**: 1 Kings 10:10, Matthew 2:11. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3460160349402816715)


## 1KI 10:28

Kue, known as Cilicia in new testament times was the home province of Apostle Paul

**Related verses**: 1 Kings 10:28. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3456784144708395386)


## 1KI 10:24

God put divine wisdom in the mind of Solomon and this caused the whole world to seek to hear the wisdom of Solomon. the wisdom Jesus had from God made 6000+ people search for him in the desert and ignore food for 3 days.

Man shall not live by bread alone but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. the whole world was hungry to be fed from the words of Solomon.

God's wisdom compels people to hear us

**Related verses**: 1 Kings 10:24, Mark 6:44. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3456780797469253976)


## 1KI 10:20

what wisdom would be great enough to tame 12 lions such that they won't wake up one day and decide to eat the king.

**Related verses**: 1 Kings 10:20. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3456778461418086711)


## 1KI 10:7

Jesus claims to be greater than Solomon. Solomon said he did everything possible but found that all was vanity. Jesus didn't built earthly structures but focused on the Kingdom of our father in heaven. He operates in divine wisdom. 

The queen of Sheba is mentioned as the queen of the south

**Related verses**: 1 Kings 10:7, Matthew 12:42. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3456769022673805534)


## 1KI 10:28

Divine wisdom 
- makes you Wealthy
- famous
- builds you a house
- honoured

Solomon even though very wise, his wisdom was turned to foolishness because he disobeyed God in his latter days. He forfeited long life.

He disobeyed the laws of Deuteronomy 17:16-20 which warned kings not to multiply horses, increase silver and gold, multiply wives. The warning was that having many wives would turn his heart away from God.

I believe he became proud because of his fame and stopped reading and acting on the word of God given to the kings to read, learn and observe.

We are made to know according to Deuteronomy 17:19-20 that learning and observing the word of God will make us humble. Meaning no one is above learning at the school of the word of God.

The book of Proverbs also warned us not to give our strength to women because they destroy kings (Proverbs 3:1-3). Solomon the wisest man before Jesus was destroyed, Samson the strongest man portrayed in the bible was destroyed.

If the strongest and the wisest were destroyed, then we must be on guard.

At the end of it all. The wisdom, knowledge, understanding, fame, wealth, women and glory. All without God was vanity and vexation of spirit

**Related verses**: Deuteronomy 17:19-20, 1 Kings 10:28, 1 Kings 11:1-6, Proverbs 3:1-3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2652894640659489042)


## 1KI 10:7

Wisdom makes you a wonder. It also brings glory to God

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 10:7, 1 KINGS 10:26. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2652876647690920179)

