
---
title: "1KI 11"
date: 2017-06-10 16:49:59 +00:00
book: 1KI
draft: false
---

## 1KI 11:33

Solomon lost the kingdom because 
- he abandoned God and 
- served other gods.
- he disobeyed the ordinances and commandments of God

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 11:33. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2654637071000134435)


## 1KI 11:13

God's faithfulness and mercy is everlasting. Irrespective of the sins of Solomon, God still had mercy and would not completely remove the kingdom of David because of his covenant with David and because of Israel his chosen people.

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 11:12-13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2653552862282113656)


## 1KI 11:9

Appearance from God does not necessarily change us. Only the Holy Spirit can help us.

It is the love of God and constant fellowship with him that keeps us.

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 11:9. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2653547793121796699)


## 1KI 11:5

Divine wisdom 
- makes you Wealthy
- famous
- builds you a house
- honoured

Solomon even though very wise, his wisdom was turned to foolishness because he disobeyed God in his latter days. He forfeited long life.

He disobeyed the laws of Deuteronomy 17:16-20 which warned kings not to multiply horses, increase silver and gold, multiply wives. The warning was that having many wives would turn his heart away from God.

I believe he became proud because of his fame and stopped reading and acting on the word of God given to the kings to read, learn and observe.

We are made to know according to Deuteronomy 17:19-20 that learning and observing the word of God will make us humble. Meaning no one is above learning at the school of the word of God.

The book of Proverbs also warned us not to give our strength to women because they destroy kings (Proverbs 3:1-3). Solomon the wisest man before Jesus was destroyed, Samson the strongest man portrayed in the bible was destroyed.

If the strongest and the wisest were destroyed, then we must be on guard.

At the end of it all. The wisdom, knowledge, understanding, fame, wealth, women and glory. All without God was vanity and vexation of spirit

**Related verses**: Deuteronomy 17:19-20, 1 Kings 10:28, 1 Kings 11:1-6, Proverbs 3:1-3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2652894640659489042)

