
---
title: "1KI 12"
date: 2017-06-10 17:21:25 +00:00
book: 1KI
draft: false
---

## 1KI 12:27

Doubt can rob us of God's promises. Even though God had elevated Jeroboam and have made him king of Israel and made a covenant to obey God, he decided to make the Israelites serve calves as they did before in the wilderness after they went away from Egypt. 

Indeed he made Israel sin. We need to be careful of following counsels that are not inline with the word of God.

Rehoboam and Jeroboam followed bad counsel and lost favour with God.

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 12:26-27. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2654652894775337833)


## 1KI 12:7

All Rehoboam was meant to do was be humble and be a servant for a short season and be obedient to the words of the elders but he chose to listen to his friends and in the end, he lost most of the kingdoms.

Although it was God's original plans but humanly speaking, pride can ruin a lot of things

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 12:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2654646784647488350)


## 1KI 12:4

Even though Solomon was wise, to accomplish his building mission, he had to put people under forced labour. His yoke was heavy. When we compare Jesus to Solomon, Jesus was wiser than Solomon yet his yoke was lighter. For Jesus said in Matthew 11:28-29

"Come unto me all he that labour and are heavy-laden and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you for I am meek and lowly and you will find rest for your souls".

Comparison between Solomon and Jesus
- Solomon was wise, Jesus was wiser
- Solomon was a king. Jesus is the king of kings
- Solomon's yoke was heavy, Jesus yoke was light

A sign of wisdom is building many things

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 12:4, MATTHEW 11:28-29. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2654645135740756818)

