
---
title: "1KI 17"
date: 2017-06-13 07:08:44 +00:00
book: 1KI
draft: false
---

## 1KI 17:23

When the woman surrendered the dead boy to the man of God, God resurrected him and brought him back to the woman.

The boy was taken to the upper room before he got resurrected after which he was taken back down. do you have an upper room in your life dedicated to meeting with God and praying.

The disciples were in the upper room praying before the Holy Spirit fell mightily. (Acts 1:13, 2:1-2)

Peter raised up Dorcas in her upper room (Acts 9:37-39)

The upper room was a place of honour usually used to welcome important guests to lodge in.

What is dead in your life that you don't want to surrender to God that he should help you resurrect but are constantly struggling with in your own strength. Rebuild your upper room and many dead things will come back to life.

Cry out to God and surrender it to him.

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 17:19, 1 KINGS 17:23. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2656518852301283472)


## 1KI 17:14

Elijah didn't just say or do things on his own initiatives, he waited for the word of the Lord and obeyed it and reaped the benefits of obedience

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 17:14. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2656513026538856571)


## 1KI 17:15

Great faith in operation. God had brought the woman hope but she had to upgrade the hope to faith.

Someone could have said this man wants to even share in the remaining food we have. If she thought that way, she would have forfeited God's help and lost his blessings.

It is amazing that God provided for both Elijah who had nothing but God and the lady had little but the little was turned to much after the woman believed and brought the first of what she had made to the man of God.

God will always provide for his people in their times of need but do we just believe what we see that there is no way out of the situation or do we believe God and act on what we believe.

I have come to conclude that faith isn?t going against common sense or doing crazy things all in the name of religion but faith is believing the word of God for what it is and acting on it and obeying it even if it goes against common sense and popular opinions. God is pleased with that.

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 17:14-15. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2655798882168725704)

