
---
title: "1KI 3"
date: 2020-06-13 01:07:32 +00:00
book: 1KI
draft: false
---

## 1KI 3:28

The wisdom of God is important in administering justice as was given to Solomon

**Related verses**: 1 Kings 3:28. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3450691253518983639)


## 1KI 3:28

The wisdom of God would make people reverence you. The wisdom of God made people fear (reverence) Jesus

**Related verses**: 1 Kings 3:28, Mark 6:2. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3450186828065006384)


## 1KI 3:27

The true state of a shepherd-sheep relationship. The real shepherd interceded on behalf of the sheep while the other sought to destroy the life of the child as she destroyed the life of her son.

The thief comes to kill, steal and destroy. Jesus came that we may have life.

The word of God is important in discerning good and wise judgement.

this is what happens when Satan brings an accusation before the father but Jesus or his followers petitions the father so that they might not be given over to the will of Satan the evil one

**Related verses**: 1 Kings 3:27, John 10:10. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3450181557259330324)


## 1KI 3:25

Divine wisdom in operation. Because the wisdom of God is higher and different than the wisdom of the world, it doesn't make sense because it surpasses the senses of the soul and will provoke the emotions of the soul. it is greater to comprehend with the mind of the soul.

**Related verses**: 1 Kings 3:25. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3450180913618215696)


## 1KI 3:24

The sword of the spirit (the word of God). The true intentions of the two prostitutes were revealed after the sword was brought to be used

**Related verses**: 1 Kings 3:24, Hebrews 4:12. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3450179811329958662)


## 1KI 3:9

Solomon prayed for an understanding mind and a hearing (obedient heart). Understanding is really important in administer justice as the King and representatives of God.

I as a Christian represent the Lord Jesus and need understanding to obey the words of God. Unless God opens my mind, I may never understand many things that I have been taught. Since my mind needs to be renewed by the word of God, it becomes easier when I pray for God to give me an understanding mind and an obedient heart.

Understanding things helps me to be more obedient. Until Jesus opened the minds of the disciples on the way to Emmaus, they didn?t know they were walking and talking with Jesus. After that they understood the scriptures they had been reading from their youth and the things Jesus had spent 3 years to teach them

Solomon was in his 20?s when he became king but he needed understanding to be able to lead. To be a good shepherd, I need understanding of how to lead and shepherd my sheep.

By reading books and praying to God for understanding, I will be able to fight against the devil?s scheme.


?among them the god of this world [Satan] has blinded the minds of the unbelieving to prevent them from seeing the illuminating light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God.?
? ??2 Corinthians? ?4:4??

May God give us an understanding mind and a hearing heart as we go by in our daily lives

**Related verses**: 1 Kings 3:9, Psalms 32:9, Luke 24:45, 2 Corinthians 4:4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3447963928742322447)


## 1KI 3:3

I was just going through this scripture once again and realise that God didn?t ask Solomon what he wanted because he sacrificed 1000 burnt offerings because God himself said in Psalm 50:10 that the cattle on a thousand hills are his.

The reason for God appearing to him was because *He loved the Lord*. Their love was mutual even though Solomon had already disobeyed the two of God?s laws by making an alliance with Pharaoh and gaining an Egyptian wife for himself. He also burnt incense in the high places rather than at the designated tabernacle God had ordered.

Back to the point. The reason God appeared to him was because *he loved God* and obeyed him by going to Gibeah to offer the 1000 sacrifices at the right location.

Love + obedience + sacrifice

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 3:3-5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2778033235488923882)


## 1KI 3:20

We can liken this story to the story of us and the Heavenly Father. Our father had given birth to us spiritually. You can easily begin to drift as you spend time with the world, the devil and his servants including unbelievers (through what we invest our time and mind in). They will only kill you spiritually.

God loves us so much and has compassion on us and would rather prefer that we do not die. He would rather do much to see us bring saved and he did by sending his son Jesus to die for our sins.


The plan of the devil is to crush you especially at night (when things aren't going well). To kill you as he devours those under him. But do you just keep shut or run to the King of kings to sort out the matter for you.

The devil will always copy God and make a duplicate of what God has done. The difference is that you need the word of God (the sword of the spirit) to discern the true from the false. Solomon had to put them to the test through his sword in order to recognise the true mother from the false one. 

One way this was known was through the compassion of a mother for her son. Are we compassionate? Do we speak to people about Christ or just wait as they waste their life and go to hell.



Although these two women were prostitutes, only one of them showed compassion and received her child back. A true mother is not one who gave birth physically but one who has compassion and makes sure that that lovely creation of God doesn't die spiritually and go to hell. Shepherds are given by God to watch over your soul.

**Related verses**: 1 Kings 3:16-23. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2650728788593992423)


## 1KI 3:28

When divine wisdom begins to work in your life, people don't see just an ordinary boy, they begin to fear and admire you as you administer divine justice and judgement

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 3:28. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2650721839831835356)


## 1KI 3:7

- Acknowledging God as the one who set him on the throne
- truthfulness and humility in status

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 3:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2650714568242488001)


## 1KI 3:11

What not to ask God for:
- long life (conditional and attained by obedience)
- wealth - (God's blessings makes rich)
- lives of our enemies (we should instead love them)

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 3:11. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2650542691167494992)


## 1KI 3:6

Faithfulness, righteousness and uprightness in my part towards God = God's loving kindness towards me and my generation

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 3:6. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2650538823557833535)


## 1KI 3:13

What do you ask for when God gives you an opportunity? A car, a house, a sexy lady, latest shoe. If your request is along that line, you charge too low for the son of a king.

Solomon was wise enough to ask for a understanding mind and a hearing heart for God's purpose and God gave him more than he asked for. God also gave Solomon a conditional promise of long life which Solomon could not fulfil because of the women he married. They turned his heart from the Lord.

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 3:11-13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2650516664345158382)


## 1KI 3:5

Ask me what I shall give you.

There is a level of asking God for what we want and there is yet another dimension of God asking us what we want.

The word of God tells us that Solomon entered this dimension because he loved the Lord and the Lord loved him too. It doesn't end here, he showed his love by obeying his father David and sacrificing a very great amount of burnt offerings.

- God gave the greatest sacrifice (through his son Jesus) - Jesus inherited the greatest name. A name above every other name.

- Abraham almost sacrificed his only promised child Isaac - he became the father of many nations and a father of faith. He was blessed beyond measure. He became a friend of God.

- Solomon sacrificed a thousand burnt offerings- he became the wisest man in his time 


All these three examples have something in common. Obedience, faith, hope and love

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 3:5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2650509726689518283)


## 1KI 3:3

God loved Solomon from birth and Solomon loved God that was why he was willing to sacrifice 1000 burnt offerings to God. This also provoked God to appear to Solomon in a dream and to favour him with a request and Solomon wasn't selfish in his request, he requested for something that will be of benefit in helping the kingdom of God.

In return God gave him more than he asked for. Solomon didn't live as long as God originally promised because his heart grew cold and he went after other gods.

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 3:3-5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2650490263273464423)

