
---
title: "GEN 1"
date: 2019-07-12 00:16:59+00:00
book: GEN
draft: false
---

## GEN 1:30

Before the fall of man, the food given to mankind was every green plant and fruit-bearing tree with SEED in it. This islso brings to mind the notion of fruitfulness.

After the fall of man, eating animals was included but blood was forbidden.

**Related verses**: GENESIS 1:29-30. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3206416384809231200)


## GEN 1:28

God blessed the first and last of his living creatures but the last was given dominion.

It seems God favours the last than the first just like in the life and genealogy of Adam, Abraham and down.

**Related verses**: GENESIS 1:28. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3206030413974462857)


## GEN 1:21

It is God's blessings to be fruitful. Fruitfulness is a sign of blessing. the first recorded blessing pronounced by God is on the fifth day. 

God blessed the creatures of the sea and the air but there was no record of God blessing the land animals during creation

Every mention of extinction is a curse. Being few is a curse

**Related verses**: GENESIS 1:21-22. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3206023632799916311)


## GEN 1:2

Before the spirit moved, the earth was in chaos, a state of emptiness and darkness.

When the spirit moved, there was a transformation because the word was spoken and the light appeared. The spirit and the word was needed before anything was done.

The father was silent until the Holy Spirit moved then the father called the son to show up and his light filled the earth.

The son claims, I am the light of the world - John 8:12

**Related verses**: GENESIS 1:2-3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2574515929678078773)

