
---
title: "GEN 19"
date: 2020-06-20 19:18:38 +00:00
book: GEN
draft: false
---

## GEN 19:3

A sign of the communion. they had communion before judgement. Jesus had communion before he faced judgement on the cross. The Israelites had communion before judgement fell on Egypt.

The communion and the unleavened bread was to show that there is no sin in me and the wine is a sign of purity. After you crush me, you will find no dreggs in me.

But Jesus had to drink of the cup of God's wrath and taste the dreggs. He also had to experience the broken unleavened bread

**Related verses**: Genesis 19:3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3456313847450427998)


## GEN 19:13

God's judgement was because of idolatry and bloodshed. A direct desecration of the golden rule. To love God and others.

Sodom and Gomorrah was involved in this. Homosexuality was a common practise in Sodom and Gomorrah. Male temple prostitutes also engaged in homosexual acts in pagan religion.

Before God judges the earth, there had to be an outcry by humans bringing into account the deeds of the offenders.

The blood of Abel cried in revenge to Cain's murdering. The outcry of Sodom went up to heaven so God had to come down to do judgement.

The outcry of the Israelites was great in Egypt so God had to come down.

God raises a preacher to warn people of their evil deeds before he administers justice and judgement. Examples are Noah, Jonah, Jesus.

the reason why we have many preachers in this world of today is because the sins of the world is so great and there will be a great judgement coming soon.

more preachers is a sign of increase in sin but he will rescue the righteous

**Related verses**: Genesis 19:13, Ezekiel 22:4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3456307084395274805)


## GEN 19:20

Lot was spared for Abraham's sake and for this Lot was also granted favour because he asked for a town with little population to be spared. I perceive Lot must be old by now.

**Related verses**: GENESIS 19:20-21. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3215597908221748108)


## GEN 19:13

Angels who had a physical human manifestation were involved in destroying the city of Sodom and Gomorrah. they didn't need to be born before they manifested in human form.

Unlike Demons who are offsprings of the fallen angels and man. they became demons after the flood of Noah when they died and lost their physical body but still exists and roams around the earth.

**Related verses**: GENESIS 19:13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3215534070143115518)


## GEN 19:13

God hears the cry of people. The outcry of Sodom and Gomorrah was so great that God sent Angels to destroy the city.

Angels have the power to strike people with blindness and can be changed into the form of men

**Related verses**: Genesis 19:13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3214353756557402884)

