
---
title: "GEN 3"
date: 2019-07-12 10:36:07+00:00
book: GEN
draft: false
---

## GEN 3:6

Adam was called Eve's husband which means they had gotten married. so any notion of them having sex wouldn't have been a sin. 

This is for people who thinks the sin and the real forbidden fruit was having sex. that is untrue and unscriptural.

**Related verses**: GENESIS 3:6. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3206728013459481089)


## GEN 3:22

It is God's mercy that we were prevented from living forever in our fallen state because we wouldn't have been able to die since the wages of sin is death.

We would be like demons walking around uncomfortably and seeking animal bodies to indwell. Mercy oh Lord.

Because without death, Jesus cannot die on the cross for our sins since we would have lived forever therefore eternally damned and separated from God. that is hell itself.

**Related verses**: GENESIS 3:22. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3206444656968327365)


## GEN 3:16

Shame, pain, sorrow and demotion are the results of a curse whereas fruitfulness, abundance and authority (promotion) are the results of a blessing

**Related verses**: GENESIS 3:16. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3206442390089621636)


## GEN 3:14

God had previously blessed man but God didn't curse man afterwards. He rather cursed the serpent and the ground because they had not received God's blessings.

**Related verses**: GENESIS 3:14, GENESIS 3:17. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3206441283313459289)


## GEN 3:14

Notice God did not bless the cattle and wild animals on the day they were created but the blessed the birds of the air and the dishes of the sea.

Also now realise that God cursed the ground. Was it because God had already blessed thecreatures of the sea and air that is why he didn't curse them?

**Related verses**: GENESIS 3:14. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3206432350158971889)


## GEN 3:12

Eve was given to Adam by God. In Jewish culture, it's the father of the groom who finds a wife for the groom and a token is given to the bride as a guarantee that the marriage was taking place and will be consumated.

I wonder what God gave to Eve?

**Related verses**: GENESIS 3:12. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3206430480480855007)


## GEN 3:10

God threw questions to Adam in rapid succession. Mercy

**Related verses**: GENESIS 3:9-11. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3206428927405581260)


## GEN 3:10

Adam heard the sound of God walking...

Although God is spirit yet Adam could hear the sound of his footsteps. He could distinguish this was the steps and the voice of God

**Related verses**: GENESIS 3:10. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3206427900908397508)


## GEN 3:5

Where there is no law, there is no sin and judgement is not put into action.

As long as Eve didn't know the difference between right and wrong, she was sinless but as soon as she ate the forbidden fruit, her conscience was awakened and she knew sin.

**Related verses**: GENESIS 3:5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3206423303758275489)


## GEN 3:4

Best because someone looks and sounds confident of what he is saying doesn't mean Jack. I must be careful of what I hear and judge it by the word of God.

Even if an Angel preaches another gospel, let them be cursed as the serpent was cursed.

* Galatians 1:8

**Related verses**: GENESIS 3:4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3206422022582952842)


## GEN 3:1

Foolish questions. I must learn to avoid foolish questions and thoughts that make me doubt the word of God.

Just like Eve was tempted with silly questions so was Jesus. Jesus stood by the word of God but unfortunately ignorance of the word cost Eve then Adam

**Related verses**: GENESIS 3:1. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3206419950412227456)


## GEN 3:6

- Why did the serpent approach the woman instead of the man?

- The serpent begins with a twisted question of the original word of God that raised doubt. 

Compare God's word - Eat all except one tree
Compare Eve's - May eat of every but one
Compare the serpent's - Not eat of every tree 

I personally don't believe Eve received God's word incorrectly. The devil now raised doubt by negating God's instruction "You SHALL NOT SURELY die (Genesis 3:4) and giving false assurance.

The serpent then confidently talks as if he knows all about God and his thoughts and twists God's intentions so that it looks as if God doesn't want something better for the good of them whom he created in his OWN image and likeness.

There is part truth in the serpent's word in that they became as gods after eating of that tree by knowing good and evil but he made sin (disobedience) to be more pleasurable (good for food, pleasing to the EYES, and a tree to be DESIRED to make one wise), ...

1. SHE TOOK - disobeying not to touch
2. SHE ATE - disobedience not to eat (main)
3. SHE GAVE - Found a partner in crime. Implicated another party.

Truly as the serpent said, their eyes were opened and they KNEW SOMETHING. that they were NAKED.

Lessons
- Obey instructions (God's word - If you have done this, you won't need to follow the rest of the below steps)
- Be careful of the voice you listen to
- Most of the time, confiding in someone you know before taking an action from a stranger is very important
- Beware of people who ask twisted questions and exact opposites of instructions 
- Beware of people who sweet talk to override going against instructions with grave consequences in order to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a moment 
- Don't entertain conversations against God's word. Instead rebuke them
- When you have disobeyed instructions, don't try to implicate someone else
- What is pleasing to the eyes may not always end up as good.

**Related verses**: Genesis 3:1-7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2394136353883021393)


## GEN 3:8

After we have sinned or backslidden, we make a grave mistake of trying to hide from God rather than coming to him and saying I've done this but please forgive me. We hide and that usually bring grave consequences because the more we hide from God, the farther we are from him and the closer we are to losing our God given authority till our lights finally die out.

And all the tactical plans of the enemy begin to work against us. May we be quick to repent because our father is loving and doesn't wish for sinners to die but to come into repentance.

**Related verses**: Genesis 3:8. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2393204262806741418)

