
---
title: "1CO 13"
date: 2019-10-10 07:52:43+00:00
book: 1CO
draft: false
---

## 1CO 13:1

Of what use is talent, skill, power, fame, anointing and gifts without Agape love. it is useless.

Indeed without Love, everything we do loses value. 

There are attributed of love

Patience - the quality of being patient, as the bearing of provocation, annoyance, misfortune, or pain, without complaint, loss of temper, irritation, or the like.

- Patience towards everyone
- I obtain the promises through patience

**Related verses**: 1 Corinthians 13:1. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3271875583831433601)


## 1CO 13:13

Faith - You can't do things you are not convinced about. You can't do what you are not strongly convicted about.

Hope - joyful and confident expectation of eternal salvation 

Love - true affection for God and for man growing out of God's love for and in us.

True affection does no depend on will get


When you have love, faith and hope will follow

Your love must be real in any relationship. Whether for God or for man

**Related verses**: 1 Corinthians 13:13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2581562735570182211)


## 1CO 13:7

When you have love for God, you are willing to give everything, all that you have. You have passion. You don't care about anything when there is passion.

**Related verses**: 1 Corinthians 13:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2581557175676297268)


## 1CO 13:5

A suffered wrong can make you drop the things of God

**Related verses**: 1 Corinthians 13:5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2581556072733728811)


## 1CO 13:1

Love inspires intentional thinking, planning and giving

**Related verses**: 1 Corinthians 13:1. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2581554625245863974)


## 1CO 13:5

When Samuel was old, he appointed his two sons to be judges in Beersheba but they didn't walk in the ways of God. They were corrupt so the elders of Israel demanded for a King. Not just a King but LIKE THE OTHER NATIONS. 

Have they forgotten that God took them away from Egypt and separated them from the other nations so that they will be a model for the other nations but now they wanted it the other way round.

Samuel felt rejected and consulted God and God decided to grant their requests but warned them of the repercussion of doing so. (1 Samuel 8:-18) but they still ignored the repercussion and went ahead

Initially God had prophesied about 400 years ago about giving them a King (Deuteronomy 17:14-15) but they asked too soon and with the wrong motive.

I believe David was the one God was preparing to give the people and it would take about 20-25 more years as David was not yet ready for a kingship role and was still undergoing training in the wilderness taking care of the sheep.

Since God loves Israel even though they have rejected him and are still rebelling against him, he decided to grant their requests since "Love does not insist on its own ways (1 Corinthians 13:5)

Also to teach them that they don't know anything about Kingship and that their decision without God will only be catastrophic. At least they will also learn their lesson. God doesn't force. He gives you the plan, he gives you an option to choose to obey or disobey. Obedience may not always be easy and easy to understand but it's worth it whereas disobedience will be costly.

So God found Saul, although not the best choice God wanted to give them but he gave them someone who had traits of the main one.

Lesson
- Be yourself, don't copy others if it's for personal gain
- Rely on God to make the decisions
- Be patient, don't rush so that God can give you the best. Don't rush to get a counterfeit
- Always heed to warning
- in-spite of sorrows, be patient and wait on God
- Accept the person God has placed in your life in-spite of circumstances 
- Don't be wise in your own ways. God has better plans for us and since we can't see the big picture, we think it doesn't make sense so we try to fit in something else and often we disrupt God's plan for us



**Related verses**: Deuteronomy 17:14-15, 1 Samuel 8:4-5, 1 Corinthians 13:5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2314445439468560972)

