
---
title: "1CO 15"
date: 2018-08-27 13:11:49+00:00
draft: false
book: 1CO
---

## 1CO 15:26

Just as prophesied in Psalms 110:1 but now after Jesus death and resurrection, he sat at the right hand of the father.

The father has subjected everything under Christ's feet and

Related verses: 1 CORINTHIANS 15:25-27. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2975602920131387411)


## 1CO 15:21

Man died and gets buried because of the sin of Adam.

Man lives and resurrects because of the obedience of Jesus Christ

Related verses: 1 CORINTHIANS 15:21. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2975601902945559551)


## 1CO 15:3

The scriptures already foretold the death and resurrection of Jesus. Jesus himself mentioned his suffering being written of in the Psalms, the law (Exodus, Leviticus) and the prophets (e.g. Isaiah, Jeremiah etc)

Related verses: 1 CORINTHIANS 15:3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2975587527446750082)


## 1CO 15:28

Be strong in the Lord. Not in the gym, or physics, fighting, sports or in PhD. Don't get me wrong. Being strong in education or gym is good but the main aim is to be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might.

You must know God before you can be strong in the Lord.

Example, if you don't know about the country's system e.g. Free education till certain level in some countries, you would be at loss.

Know who God is. What he is capable of doing.

Strong - Greek. Dunamis (dynamo) 
To be strengthened, increase in strength,

Philippians 4:13 - (I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me)
 
Bring strong is a commandment 

2 Timothy 2:1 - Timothy, my dear son, be strong through the grace that God gives you in Christ Jesus

What it means to be a strong Christian

1. To go deeper into Christ - you need to be deep in Jesus. Psalm 42:7 (Deep calleth unto deep at the noise of the waterspout: all thy waves and thy bellows are gone over me)

2. Steadfastness/unmovable - 1 Corinthians 15:58 (therefore my beloved brother, be steadfast and unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord). 

When you commit yourself to God, you always feel the need to serve God, to do things for him, read the bible

3. Be spiritual (Romans 8:6) - For to be carnally minded is death but to be spiritually minded Is life and peace

James 3:15-17 - (This wisdom descendeth not from above but is earthly, sensual, devilish ... But the wisdom that is from this world is first pure, then peaceable, ... )






Related verses: Psalms 42:7, Romans 8:6, 1 Corinthians 15:28, Ephesians 6:10, Philippians 4:13, 2 Timothy 2:1, James 3:15-17. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2300240412843696251)

