
---
title: "JHN 2"
date: 2020-02-04 07:26:56 +00:00
book: JHN
draft: false
---

## JHN 2:2

Jesus already had disciples when he was invited to the wedding in Cana where he turned the water used for cleansing to wine for drinking and pleasure.

Imagine trying to use water to wash and find wine and you put some in your mouth and it tastes even nicer.

God provided more than enough. Had Jesus not been invited, there would have been shortage of wine.

It looks like it was a great feast and feasts usually lasts 7 days. One jar of wine for each remaining day

**Related verses**: John 2:2. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3356661369579233354)


## JHN 2:22

They believed the written word and the spoken word of the living word

**Related verses**: John 2:22. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2497201124743569905)


## JHN 2:10

If Jesus had not been invited to the wedding, the wedding would have ended up in disgrace. But because Jesus was invited, there was much joy and a change of circumstance.

In the longer sense, it was as though the bridegroom planned something spectacular even though it was through divine intervention.

Another thing to note, Jesus wasn't hasty to follow his mother's instructions but waited for the right time. Perhaps his mother already knew he was a miracle worker. The servants as well obeyed and did as Jesus said rather than complaining

The water turned wine was not only a miracle, it was the best wine of the feast. Jesus gives the best when we invite and talk to him so we should give him the best as well

**Related verses**: John 2:10. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2494198753088233777)

