
---
title: "JHN 3"
date: 2020-10-11 02:41:45 +00:00
book: JHN
draft: false
---

## JHN 3:6

we are born of the flesh to enter into the Kingdom of this world and likewise we must be born of the spirit to enter into the Kingdom of God.

Just as we don't know how bones are formed in the womb of a woman, likewise we don't know how one is born of the Spirit.

**Related verses**: Ecclesiastes 11:5, John 3:5-8. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3537711762969977115)


## JHN 3:17

God has always given man a second chance before initiating a final judgement as we can see in the times of Noah, the Judges, Lot etc.

God needs a witness before he can initiate a judgement that's why Abraham, Noah and other examples had to agree with God and preach the gospel.

Another reason why Jesus had to be born of man was not just to save us of our sin but was also so that he could be a human witness of the final judgement.

Our salvation is dependent on our obedience because our obedience is linked to our hearing and this is why God constantly warned the Israelites to hearken to his words and that involves doing. To hear is easy but to do is hard but the doing is what confirms our faith

**Related verses**: John 3:17. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3308144213401264345)


## JHN 3:7

It?s a must. It?s a command. You must be born again

**Related verses**: JOHN 3:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2894317400173044590)


## JHN 3:2

Miracles are signs of the presence of God but doesn't really mean it is from God because the beast and false prophets from the book of revelations also performed signs and wonders

**Related verses**: John 3:2. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2591317265543324016)


## JHN 3:2

Nicodemus probably because of people's opinion went to Jesus by night and he acknowledged that Jesus had God's approval as a teacher through his miracles

**Related verses**: John 3:2. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2494918258986836562)


## JHN 3:3

The progression from Genesis 2 where God created man and animals and instructed them to eat plants until their fall.

After the flood, some plants would have taken time to develop but God now accepted me San to eat of any and every animal not mentioning clean or unclean until the time of Moses.

How did Noah know the clean and unclean animals to pick because we only found out about it in exodus but Abraham had already been sacrificing clean animals even in the time of Abel they probably knew what was clean and unclean.

Clean animals both chew the cud and divide the hoof. 

Chewing the cud is a matter of doing whereas splitter hoof is a matter of being (what I am).

Chewing the cud talks of meditating on the word of God until it becomes part of us

Having a splitted hoof is being separated [from the world]. Except a man is born again (reborn) he cannot see or enter into the kingdom of God.

It has never been about the food I eat physically.

**Related verses**: Genesis 2:16, Genesis 7:2, Genesis 9:3, Leviticus 11:3, Joshua 1:8, Mark 7:18-20, John 3:3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3597490230838157927)

