
---
title: "JHN 4"
date: 2020-05-15 12:36:11+00:00
book: JHN
draft: false
---

## JHN 4:10

In God's light our eyes are clear to behold light itself. God's light gives us illumination

**Related verses**: Psalms 36:9, John 4:10, John 4:14. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3430019375653707887)


## JHN 4:36

- Doing the will of the father is God's work 
- Don't think you have long time. Do it now.  Don't delay your blessings. 
- The grace of God had power to do anything (only in the church can a somebody kneel down to a nobody to lay hands on them) 
- Young people can be encouraged to do so much 
- Part of church blessings is that you have friends 
- Obedience is the key 
- God uses people from a early age no matter who you are.  (Samuel,  David, Isaac) 
- Work for God as a young person 
- You can't make profit in the house of God.  Don't have that mind.  But you can receive wages 

John 1:12 -  Bur as many as received him to them gave he power to become the sons of God even to them that believe on his name 

- See God as someone who wants to give a reward 
- Have a positive mind of doing the work of God otherwise your effort isn't worth it
- You will never serve God in vain.  Do things not with people in mind but with God in mind 
- You will be the first partaker of the fruit if you serve God 

You will receive wages for:
-- matthew 6:33 -  Seek ye first the kingdom of God 

You have all the needed basic amenities of life according to economics.  Food,  shelter and clothing.  The rest are wants 

- Your wages come in the form of deliverance from shame,  deliverance and embarrassment 

Your worth increases when you obey what you have been told to do. (Jesus mother said to the men at the wedding,  do whatever he tells you to do) 

* Bishop Dag Heward Mills

God does things in order.  He performs great things in order. Jesus had to tell the disciples to arrange the people in order before he performed the miracle of multiplying 5 loaves and 2 fishes

**Related verses**: John 4:36. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2406677032060313626)

