
---
title: "2KI 1"
date: 2017-06-16 07:17:41 +00:00
draft: false
book: 2KI
---

## 2KI 1:3

It was a disgrace to leave the king of kings and go enquiry from demons from a different nation. Getting himself ensnared and bringing upon himself punishment as God had previously warned not to have anything to do with the gods of other nations.

It is so sad many Christians of nowadays are in the same bondage and finds nothing wrong with them. In fact the occult has been so blended in daily lives that we see nothing wrong in it.

Occultic activities like Yoga (whose root is from Hinduism) [not to be confused with Pilate], Tarot card readings, Ouija boards, Astrology, Numerology, Telekinesis (examples as seen in the movie Avatar, the last airbender), Horoscopes, Palm reading, inquiring into the future, crystal gazing, Astral projections, use of some drugs like heroin, abortion (child sacrifice)

Related verses: 2 KINGS 1:3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2658697692289163998)


## 2KI 1:13

The fact that you are the captain of 50 or one of the commanders of the king doesn't mean you should lose your respect. 

The third captain was sensible enough to beg for his life and go to Elijah with reverence and his life was spared.

One thing I realised is that the first two captains told Elijah to come down the hill and meet the them so they can take him to the king but the third officer WENT UP to the hill, to Elijah's level. Elijah wasn't going to GO DOWN to the level of the King's servant.

Enough God didn't intervene in the matters of the two previous captains unto this one who approached THE MAN OF GOD reverently.

Related verses: 2 KINGS 1:13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2658691545016558282)

