
---
title: "2KI 18"
date: 2017-06-28 03:09:13 +00:00
draft: false
book: 2KI
---

## 2KI 18:30

The messengers of the king of Assyria recounted their victories to instil fear in the men of Judah.

David recounted his past testimonies until he won the victory over Goliath. - 1 Samuel 17:37

They overcame the devil by the blood of the lamb and THE WORD OF THEIR TESTIMONY - Revelation 12:11

Our testimony makes us overcomers.

Related verses: 2 KINGS 18:30. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2667269942965691091)


## 2KI 18:36

They say "Silence is the best answer for a fool" and that has worked many times.

Hezekiah was silent in the face of opposition threat and boasting. Jesus was also silent when questioned by Pilate and the chief priests when he was being tried.

Be still and know that God is God and he is able to rescue you from the furnace of oppression

Related verses: 2 KINGS 18:36. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2667268379404657345)


## 2KI 18:35

Stupid question full of pride. The king of Assyria tested the The Lord of host and got more than he bargained for. They relied on their on strength and inventions

The fact that God is chastising his people don't mean we have gained the upper hand and should start to mistreat them.

Related verses: 2 KINGS 18:35. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2667266760562696870)


## 2KI 18:5

What a great memorial. So much faith in God. Even though his dad did evil and led people to idolatry, he got rid of them.

His obedience lead to success and he was able to stand against the Assyrian empire the great nation of his day.


When you are obedient and the Lord is with you, you can stand against every Goliath, you can move every mountain.

He was a David in the making. Not many of the kings of Judah was said of that "The Lord was with him".

As far as I know, only the kings that this was said of was David, Solomon, Asa and Hezekiah

Related verses: 2 KINGS 18:5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2667245191513760254)

