
---
title: "2KI 3"
date: 2017-06-17 09:11:41 +00:00
draft: false
book: 2KI
---

## 2KI 3:27

One of the reasons God forbid the ways of the heathen. Child sacrifice was part of it and they sacrificed these to demons.

God told Abraham to sacrifice his son Isaac long ago, it may have been a common practice in the time of Abraham but Abraham was willing to do so not to a demon but to the true God because Hebrews 11 tells us that ABRAHAM BELIEVED THAT GOD WAS ABLE TO RAISE HIM FROM THE DEAD. 

whereas these demons can't raise people from the dead. The act was forbidden by God as an abomination and the sacrifice made by the king of Moab caused such a great fury that the allies of the king of Israel left him.

What are you sacrificing for God? God can only use what you sacrifice to him like your time, strength. If you don't sacrifice these things to God, you will do it for devils

Related verses: 2 KINGS 3:27. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2659479836401853085)


## 2KI 3:27

The miracles of the water happened in the morning AFTER the sacrifice has been offered. What are withholding from God that is preventing your valley to be filled with water.

The Edomite king also found a way to stop the war by offering his son as a sacrifice to his god chemosh.

Related verses: 2 KINGS 3:20, 2 KINGS 3:27. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2659474051391283846)


## 2KI 3:15

Music (worship) is sometimes needed for the prophetic anointing. Worship sets a good atmosphere for the presence of God to be tangible.

Even in ancient religion, music was used to arouse evil spirits so that their presence will be tangible. These things are used even in traditional masquerading.

Related verses: 2 KINGS 3:15. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2659473077616501378)

