
---
title: "2KI 4"
date: 2017-06-21 07:54:00+00:00
book: 2KI
draft: false
---

## 2KI 4:44

Miracle of multiplication of bread. Jesus performed the same thing after giving thanks to God. Elisha was instructed by the word of the Lord before he did it. 

This type of miracle was seen in the ministry of Moses (Called to save Israelites from Egypt), Elisha (means God is salvation) and Jesus (Saviour of the world from sin. His name means saviour/salvation).

**Related verses**: 2 KINGS 4:43-44. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2662339846349775379)


## 2KI 4:6

You can only get as much as you can take or as much as your imagination of how big God is

**Related verses**: 2 KINGS 4:6. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2660901161993495144)


## 2KI 4:23

Great expectations and show of faith.

It will be alright in the name of Jesus

**Related verses**: 2 KINGS 4:23. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2660898570341442142)


## 2KI 4:9

Elijah was also influential and it took the woman to perceive that he was a man of God before she took him in. Not many perceived him as a man of God. Perhaps many just saw Elisha as just an old man. Not even the Israelite women reconsidered or honoured Elisha but a woman of Shunem. Perhaps, it was familiarity that blinded the Israelites from seeing that a blessing is among them.

Jesus said that a prophet is no without honour except in his hometown and among his people (Mark 6:4)

Jesus said whoever receives a prophet in the name of a prophet will receive a prophet?s reward. Likewise will receive a righteous man?s reward if received as a righteous man (Matthew 10:41)

Wherever Jesus was seen as Lord, he did mighty works there but unfortunately he was seen as a carpenter, the son of Mary in his hometown of Nazareth and he could there do no mighty works because of their unbelief (Matthew 13:54-57)


Helping and being hospitable to men of God provokes divine favour. The woman was influential, had a good house and a husband but she had no child.

Through her action, she provoked favour and gave birth the following year.

**Related verses**: 2 KINGS 4:9, 2 KINGS 4:13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2660897775747326554)


## 2KI 4:1

She had to cry out and share her problem. Being silent would have done her no good at all.

**Related verses**: 2 KINGS 4:1. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2660895939866911316)


## 2KI 4:6

A vessel is always needed for the anointing to keep multiplying on. Something must be in continual use. You must be in a state of constant surrender for the anointing on your life to keep multiplying

**Related verses**: 2 KINGS 4:6. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2660894237726073424)

