
---
title: "2KI 5"
date: 2020-06-19 06:31:13 +00:00
draft: false
book: 2KI
---

## 2KI 5:17

The key here is this. Jews and Gentiles could call upon God?s name. According to Solomon?s prayer.

Jews should face 
* the temple when in Jerusalem
* Jerusalem when outside Canaan

Gentiles
* need to be in Jerusalem and face the temple

Jews had more privilege by right of birth until Jesus died and the veil of the temple was torn.

Elisha saved the soul of Namaan :). The revelation that gentiles could also worship God outside the Holy land can be seen when Namaan asked Elisha if it was possible and Elisha gave a yes to the question

Related verses: 2 Kings 5:17-19, 2 Chronicles 6:24, 2 Chronicles 6:28-39. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3455202823540302414)


## 2KI 5:25

Gehazi was greedy and a liar. He could have been the servant on which the mighty anointing of Elisha would be transferred to. He could have gotten more but Gehazi's bad attitude prevented him from getting the anointing.

Judas as well was one of the Apostles but greed caused him damage. He lost his office, reputation and his life

Related verses: 2 KINGS 5:25. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2663071340827501020)


## 2KI 5:17

Naaman heard of the God of Israel. Faith was born. He got healed after obeying the word of [the man of] God and became a believer. 

Faith, healing, salvation, baptism and confession

Related verses: 2 KINGS 5:17. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2663069632495870413)


## 2KI 5:18

Naaman was pardoned to worship in the house of Rimmon when his master the King wants to worship. This is because Naaman's true intention wasn't to worship those gods but unchangeable circumstance made him do it

Related verses: 2 KINGS 5:18. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2663068418723013059)


## 2KI 5:10

Pride would have cost Naaman his healing. Sometimes what seems little is actually the solution but we want something that sounds very big and costs us a lot. This is religion

Related verses: 2 KINGS 5:10. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2660910340858700413)

