
---
title: "EXO 34"
date: 2019-11-15 14:13:23 +00:00
book: EXO
draft: false
---

## EXO 34:29

The reason his skin glowed was because he had been with God for forty days and forty night. The presence of God had permeated him so much that he became a different person.

That was the glory of God. the same happened when Peter, James and John saw Jesus glory on the mount of transfiguration when his face and cloth shone brighter than the sun

**Related verses**: Exodus 34:29. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3298159104199745770)


## EXO 34:21

Rest is even more important than harvesting. God is saying his commandments are way more important even when things are going well or wrong.

Harvest is a good time and harvest can be bad when the ripe crops are not harvested in time before they get rotten

**Related verses**: Exodus 34:21. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3298152586914029677)


## EXO 34:20

A donkey is stubborn. Hence the term stiff-necked.
Every firstborn of a donkey must be redeemed with a lamb else it's neck must be broken. 

"Either break the stiff-necked or redeem with a gentle flowing lamb"

To even choose to break a donkey's neck instead of redeeming it is wickedness and an open rebellion against God that "I'd rather destroy this first born than redeem it".

Pharaoh was stiff-necked and lost his first born but God redeemed Israel with the shadow and type of the lamb that was slain before the foundations of the world.

**Related verses**: Exodus 34:20. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3153938526870692638)


## EXO 34:15

They lust after their gods because of the gratification of the flesh that it produces in terms of sexual orgies etc. which is in direct opposition to the commandments of God

**Related verses**: Exodus 34:15. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3153933138121188078)

