
---
title: "EST 3"
date: 2017-07-13 05:10:59 +00:00
book: EST
draft: false
---

## EST 3:13

A decree by Haman to wipe out the entire Jewish race in a day lead to a celebration of a feast years later

**Related verses**: ESTHER 3:13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2678202852690354824)


## EST 3:9

Evil people don't spend money on themselves and their families. They spend it on evil things. Imagine Haman would rather pay 10000 talents of silver for evil. What a Jezebel of a man to use the King's authority for evil.

**Related verses**: ESTHER 3:9. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2677562404607091195)


## EST 3:7

What a wicked man, he planned for almost a year (350+ daily) [from Mar/Apr - Feb/Mar] by casting lots and deploying sources other than God just to find a favourable day to approach the king so that his evil plan would come forth.

Just like Jezebel, he wanted to use the King's influence to do evil.

Just because you have been promoted doesn't mean you have to misuse power and forcefully gain the respect of man.

**Related verses**: ESTHER 3:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2677558698436190710)


## EST 3:6

I don't know why Mordecai refused to bow to Haman. Perhaps it has to do with being a blessed child of God but Haman also was determined to annihilate all the Jews because one man didn't pay him homage. 

Unfortunately, Haman got hung on the gallow he prepared for his enemy. If God had not intervened, the Jews would have been exterminated and the bloodline of David from whom Jesus Christ should have come in order to save humanity would have also perished.

Thanks to God that this didn't happen. Perhaps if Saul had exterminated the Amalekites when God told him, the life of the future generations will not have been in danger.

It is also most likely that Mordecai and Esther were from the bloodline of Kish, Saul's father

**Related verses**: ESTHER 3:6. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2677557149152567796)

