
---
title: "MRK 10"
date: 2020-04-03 05:24:51 +00:00
book: MRK
draft: false
---

## MRK 10:45

Jesus main purpose was to be a servant of humanity freeing us from the penalty of sin, removing our guilt and covering our shame.

he gave his life as an exchange for us

**Related verses**: Mark 10:45. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3399361683985785771)


## MRK 10:44

Eradicates selfish ambition
A big responsibility for being first. I can't expect anything in return.

Serve others and give your life for them

**Related verses**: Mark 10:43-45. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3163240149832950541)


## MRK 10:19

Jesus mentioned the last 6 commandments for which the rich, young ruler had kept since his youth (13 years). Though this man was a master of earthly relationship and keeping the last 6 commandments, he had no relationship with God and was not willing to part his possessions to follow God.

Jesus intentionally skipped the first four commandments which was set aside for God. All these first four could be kept by following Christ himself who is God.

He treasured his possessions more than a relationship with God.

**Related verses**: MARK 10:19, MARK 10:22. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2885644094913897058)


## MRK 10:7

The Pharisees intention was to trick him and have him killed. It was in this region that Herod had John the Baptist killed after he had denounced him for having his brother?s wife (Herodias).

If Jesus hadn?t been wise in this region and said something like 

?yes it?s unlawful and even Herod knows that what he did was wrong but ended up killing John etc?

He would have put himself in a mess. But thank God Jesus shows us how to answer tricky questions like this by referring to the scriptures.

We must also refer to the scriptures to keep ourselves safe

**Related verses**: MARK 10:6-8. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2885637349424488986)

