
---
title: "MRK 5"
date: 2019-12-20 09:39:13 +00:00
book: MRK
draft: false
---

## MRK 5:15

Spirits affect the minds of human beings. This causes negative thinking and soon it starts to show by the way the affected person thinks and acts

**Related verses**: Mark 5:15. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3323388264236966382)


## MRK 5:27

Faith of the woman with the issue of blood
This woman had heard a lot about Jesus which made her increase in faith. For faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. - Romans 10:17

The woman had been unclean more than 12 years. Anyone she touched remained unclean except they wash. She had been isolated, ostracised, couldn't move publicly. 

She was bankrupt, in pains, in sorrow. She was a woman. Woman are very emotional and her condition worsened. Finally she could bear it no longer and out of desperation she walked into the crowd not caring about who she would make unclean.

She thought, if only I could touch the hem of his garment I will be made whole

**Related verses**: Mark 5:27. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2500163708090311488)


## MRK 5:18

Jesus did not let the gentle man to be his disciple because Jesus only came for the Jews.

And the Holy Spirit was to be poured out on Jews first before the gentiles

**Related verses**: Mark 5:18. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3580720140063072450)


## MRK 5:20

None of Jesus disciples were gentiles. The demoniac wanted to join Jesus but Jesus forbid him and instead commissioned him to preach in the 10 gentile cities of Decapolis.

He was a living testimony of the mercy and power of God. Jesus fed two large crowds. Jews and also gentiles on different occasions.

I believe that the preaching of the demoniac man had an impact on the attendees of Jesus camp

**Related verses**: Mark 5:20. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3574185579116225129)


## MRK 5:4

Spirits can give supernatural strength. For example, this demoniac empowered by evil Spirits and Samson empowered by the Holy Spirit.

**Related verses**: Mark 5:4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3574178221015163408)

