
---
title: "ACT 2"
date: 2019-04-01 03:51:54+00:00
draft: false
book: ACT
---

## ACT 2:33

The Trinity mentioned here. God the Father gave the son the Holy spirit to pour out on me so that I can be like the son.

Related verses: Acts of the Apostles 2:33. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3132597434942480508)


## ACT 2:6

The Holy spirit draws people of different nations. He bridges the gap between people.

Pray for the Holy spirit

Related verses: ACTS 2:6. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3096145900482585138)


## ACT 2:2

They 120 were probably in the temple and not the upper room as explained from the NASB study Bible.

Reference to Luke 24:53 where it was said that after Jesus ascension, the disciples all returned to Jerusalem and were continually in the temple.

This explains why about 5000 souls were saved on that day. There was a lot of people (probably around 100,000 to 120,000 more or less) who visited Jerusalem as It was the 50th day after passover and many of the Jews and converts came from all over for the feast and would most likely have been worshipping in the temple at 9AM 

The Holy spirit came in form of wind and fire on the day of Pentecost.

Wind to separate the chaff from the wheat and fire to burn off the chaff just as John the Baptist had predicted in Matthew 3:11-13

Related verses: ACTS 2:2-3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2913866396696568358)


## ACT 2:38

- Filled with the Holy Spirit 
- preach Jesus
- conviction by the Holy Spirit 
- repentance
- salvation 
- baptism 
- receive the gift of the Holy Spirit

Related verses: ACTS 2:37-38. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2651880302595269262)


## ACT 2:41

- The Holy Spirit draws the people
- We preach the sermon

It is important to have knowledge of the scriptures. Peter preached from the Old Testament and his experience .

What if there was no New Testament. How do we share Christ from the Old Testament? Challenge for Christians

The Holy Spirit used sight and sound to attract the people. How is the church portraying herself. As a bride or as someone who will forsake her love (Jesus Christ) for the sake of pleasing other religion. No wonder some churches are empty of the Holy Ghost. 

A lot of churches through accommodating and trying to please everyone have been turned to a pub. May God help us Christians.

How we act and speak will determine outsiders perception of the church but unfortunately, unbelievers sometimes cannot differentiate Christians from themselves.

The church moved from Babel to Pentecost when the Holy Spirit was poured down freely on us by Jesus. Glory be to God

Another thing is when people mock, it probably is the best time to give it to them fully, hit them with (sin, and that Jesus died, was crucified and raised again just for their sins) but do not condemn.


Peter's sermon that saved souls

- preached about the death, burial, resurrection and exaltation to power of Jesus Christ
- Repentance and Forgiveness of sins
- Baptism of water, then of the Holy Spirit 

The effect of this was the piercing of the heart (some people may start crying, others will be sorrowful as the Holy Spirit is working in them, then you make the altar call of salvation.

It is clear that there were more than 3120 people at the venue on that day because the bible mentions in Acts 2:41 that those who received the word, not all accept the word.

Related verses: Acts 2:41. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2410062421240307986)

