
---
title: "JDG 16"
date: 2020-03-22 08:39:07 +00:00
book: JDG
draft: false
---

## JDG 16:21

it was considered a woman's job to grind grain and shameful to men to do the same. the previously strong man had now become a grinder of grain

**Related verses**: Judges 16:21. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3390762154067747093)


## JDG 16:20

The Holy Spirit leaves silently as is the case of Samson, Saul and the temple of Solomon in Jerusalem

**Related verses**: Judges 16:20. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3390131607838647052)


## JDG 16:15

Don't make decisions under pressure. It will lead to your downfall

**Related verses**: JUDGES 16:15-16. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2600435709056377026)


## JDG 16:3

Samson was already a great threat to the Philistines. He had no self control, he couldn't learn from the past. He depended on his strength and wasn't vigilant. He lived the way he wanted to. Disobeying God, going after harlots.

He treaded within the camps of the enemy without backup. He was a Lone Ranger. He had no counsellor. He even rejected the only recorded counsel given to by his parents. Women were all along one of his problems. He couldn't overcome nagging and ended up being destroyed. 

Never reveal the source of your strength to anyone. He removed the fates of the Philistines city. Gates are source of protection and he stripped the city bare of protection. He wrecked havoc.

The Holy Spirit still used him inspite of ho done and weakness until finally he didn't value his gift and the Holy Spirit left him.

The Holy Spirit was on him and the effect could be seen by all but he himself couldn't notice when the Holy Spirit left him.

Demons come in silently and leave loudly and it's quite the opposite for the Holy Spirit

**Related verses**: Judges 16:1-3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2600431029429461172)

