
---
title: "JDG 21"
date: 2017-04-08 07:05:24 +00:00
draft: false
book: JDG
---

## JDG 21:25

The absence of a king or a great leader gives rise to chaos in a society. When people are allowed to do what they think is right in their own eyes without respect for God and his law, destruction and all sorts of evil is bound to happen.

Had the men of Benjamin respected God's law in the first place, the Levite's concubine would not have been molested leading to death of tens of thousands and kidnapping. It would have made things easier if the men of Benjamin had handed the culprits over when Israel requested for them but they chose to go to war supporting the worthless criminals. This only shows the moral depravity of ones life when living it based on our own view of right and wrong. 

Making a vow without thinking about its consequences is also a lesson to learn. To fix a wrong with another wrong doesn't make things right and this led to the men of Benjamin kidnapping ladies from Shiloh

The law says whoever kidnaps should be put to death. What is the fate of the Benjamites after these series of events. That I don't know


- When I refuse to give up things that causes immorality/sin, I am bound to be destroyed
- Not following the ways of God would cause me to err and live a life of lack and want
- doing what I think is right in my own eyes would always result in wrong-doing unless I have a leader I can seek counsel from. Either God himself or a Holy Spirit directed leader
- I need to think before making vows and seek God for help rather than try to fix a wrong with another wrong

Related verses: Judges 21:25. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2608681970867888398)


## JDG 21:18

Did this oath come Into effect in later years. I'll keep searching

Related verses: Judges 21:18. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2608676945319944448)

