
---
title: "JDG 4"
date: 2017-03-10 07:59:35 +00:00
book: JDG
draft: false
---

## JDG 4:23

God can use anything and anybody. The war wasn't won by power of 10000 armies but by the hand of a woman who was not a warrior. 

God gives the victory and it is his glory. Although he also wants his children to have glory as well but we can only attain it by faith in God and in his word

**Related verses**: JUDGES 4:22-24. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2587690759122313755)


## JDG 4:15

Confusion is a deadly tool of the enemy. Where there is confusion, purposes and intents are abolished.

Confusion is an enemy to unity. As long as there is confusion, there will be failure.

**Related verses**: JUDGES 4:15. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2587684379485266448)


## JDG 4:9

Deborah is the second prophetess mentioned in the bible and the first woman judge. Th fact that she was a judge and ruler and used by God doesn't mean she divorced her husband Lappidoth. A lot of women nowadays miss it. When there is small success they are all over themselves.

God instituted the battle with Sisera because Israel was being oppressed although it was because of disobedience.

It is interesting to see that even though Israel constantly breaks God's law yet God has pity on them and every time they call on him, he always answers.

Now women are not meant to be fighting in a battle but Barak I guess isn't really convinced and needed Deborah to go with him.

The battle was won. A woman went to the war and  Jael the wife of Hobab, son of Moses father in law received the glory.

We lose out on the glory and recognition God wants to give us if we don't fully trust God to do as he wills. We need faith to stand courageous


The glory was to be for a man, an Israelite but was received by a woman a non-Israelite. Another way God decides to flip the coin

**Related verses**: Judges 4:4-6, Judges 4:8-9. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2587681516755345930)


## JDG 4:4

Second woman prophetess and first woman judge mentioned in the bible

**Related verses**: JUDGES 4:4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2587675545266020860)

