
---
title: "MAT 11"
date: 2019-11-08 07:30:24 +00:00
book: MAT
draft: false
---

## MAT 11:27

We don't fully know Christ or the father unless Jesus makes him known to us

**Related verses**: Matthew 11:27. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3292882848243769541)


## MAT 11:28

Even though Solomon was wise, to accomplish his building mission, he had to put people under forced labour. His yoke was heavy. When we compare Jesus to Solomon, Jesus was wiser than Solomon yet his yoke was lighter. For Jesus said in Matthew 11:28-29

"Come unto me all he that labour and are heavy-laden and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you for I am meek and lowly and you will find rest for your souls".

Comparison between Solomon and Jesus
- Solomon was wise, Jesus was wiser
- Solomon was a king. Jesus is the king of kings
- Solomon's yoke was heavy, Jesus yoke was light

A sign of wisdom is building many things

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 12:4, MATTHEW 11:28-29. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2654645135740756818)


## MAT 11:28

Jesus request
- Come to me
- Take my yoke upon you (my work)
- Learn of me

People invited
- ALL who are weary and burdened
- those with no peace of mind

Jesus response
- I will give you rest
- you will find rest for your souls

Jesus definition 
- meek and humble in heart
- yoke is easy to bear
- burden is light


Jesus invites everyone who are oppressed, tired and weary to come to him. He in turn wants to give them rest. Jesus had always been giving. He preaches the gospel, raise the dead, heal the sick, cast out demons. He was always giving. He even gave himself to be crucified for us.

Taking Jesus burden and work on us and learning from him, following him and being like him (in humility and gentleness) and in turn gain rest for our souls.

Jesus yoke and burden is easy to bear compared to the burden of the world and religious practices



We see Jesus always giving out. Love gives things out.

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 11:28-29. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2586114713012920454)


## MAT 11:27

All things gave been given to Jesus. We can only truly know the father through Jesus

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 11:27. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2586109372229476453)


## MAT 11:22

Degree of judgment is different and the cause is hardness of hearts to repent because inspite of might works fine by Jesus, they didn't repent

Jesus did mighty miracles in Capernaum but it still didn't change the people

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 11:22. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2586102074652221498)


## MAT 11:20

Judgement is coming if you do not repent.

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 11:20. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2586100646718201897)


## MAT 11:5

What you hear and see is enough to testify of my  messiahship, I don't need to open my mouth and say who I am.

- blind receive sight
- lame walk
- lepers are cleansed
- deaf bear
- dead are raised
- gospel preached to the poor

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 11:4-5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2586093234409956333)


## MAT 11:11

John the Baptist is the greatest of all the prophets even though he never performed miracles. He was privileged because his ministry was in tune with Jesus Christ. He came to prepare the way by which many would be saved.

Nevertheless, even the least of believers are greater than John the Baptist in the kingdom of heaven because of the privilege we have through Jesus Christ not because of anything we have done 

Greatness is not measured by miracles but by fulfilment of purpose

**Related verses**: Matthew 11:11. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2583419267027034816)


## MAT 11:10

Jesus never spoke a bad word about John even though Jesus was the messiah. He never thought "I have arrived"

Jesus never criticised John, the one who baptised him even though Jesus was an authoritative figure.

- A reed shaken by the wind - No? Reeds don't grow in the desert
- A man clothed in soft raiment - no rich men don't live in deserts
- John was a prophet who came to bear witness and prepare the way for Jesus

**Related verses**: Matthew 11:7-10. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2583417289018434234)


## MAT 11:5

Signs of messiahship 
- blind receives sight
- lame walk
- lepers cleansed (healing)
- deaf hear
- dead raised
- good news preached to the poor

**Related verses**: Matthew 11:5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2583406342732243590)


## MAT 11:3

John was the one who confessed Jesus as the messiah but now that he was in prison, he questions Jesus messiahship probably he was hoping Jesus would come and rescue him from prison.

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 11:3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2582620184771289979)


## MAT 11:19

Don't make the mistake of trying to please people because people's view will always differ. Just follow Jesus and do his will. Forget about man's opinion.

It's most likely the Pharisees or those who hold yo the views of the Pharisees that called Jesus a demon because the Sadducees don't believe in life after death or angels, demons or spirits

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 11:18-19. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2568348005259010965)


## MAT 11:14

John the Baptist was here to prepare the way of the Lord by turning the hearts of the children towards the father. He was watering their heart so that the hard soil of their heart can be softened and the seed of the word of the kingdom of God can be planted into those hearts

He came in the spirit and power of Elijah and not as Elijah himself

**Related verses**: Matthew 11:14. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2502943898352738352)


## MAT 11:13

The arrival of John the Baptist (his ministry) ended the reign of the law and the prophets and paved way for the kingdom of God to be preached

**Related verses**: Matthew 11:13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2502942789848522795)


## MAT 11:11

John the Baptist is the greatest of all who ever lived before Jesus began his ministry. Every other person who accepted Jesus after this whether least is greater than John the Baptist,

The privilege of following Jesus is that we have a more excellent reward and report than all the saints of the Old Testament

**Related verses**: Matthew 11:11. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2502317974582190172)


## MAT 11:20

Unrepentance brings harsh judgement whereas unbelief robs you of God's blessings. 

Intercession defers harsh judgement but it takes someone who has a relationship with God to stand in the gap.

Doing great miracles doesn't necessarily change a wicked mind to repent. It takes the grace of God because even Jesus did great miracles in some cities and yet he upbraided them for not repenting.

May God give us a heart of repentance and a desire to intercede for the lost.

**Related verses**: Matthew 11:20. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2391356203802026574)

