
---
title: "MAT 12"
date: 2020-06-21 10:22:59 +00:00
book: MAT
draft: false
---

## MAT 12:42

Jesus claims to be greater than Solomon. Solomon said he did everything possible but found that all was vanity. Jesus didn't built earthly structures but focused on the Kingdom of our father in heaven. He operates in divine wisdom. 

The queen of Sheba is mentioned as the queen of the south

**Related verses**: 1 Kings 10:7, Matthew 12:42. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3456769022673805534)


## MAT 12:24

Blasphemy against the Holy spirit is to associate the work of the Holy spirit as the work of the devil thereby preventing God from getting the glory and causing others to disbelieve the point God wanted to put out through the performance of a sign/miracle.

**Related verses**: Matthew 12:24. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3293685362211938455)


## MAT 12:12

the icebreaker and the nutcracker. 

It is permissible to do good on the Sabbath. it is permissible to do good when faced with a difficult decision of obeying the law and helping someone greatly in need or danger.

Jesus says we are more valuable than birds or sheep

**Related verses**: Matthew 12:12. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3293683708582420622)


## MAT 12:1

The disciples of Jesus was legally picking up grains and eating them. they don't harvest with sickle like the law mentioned in Deuteronomy 23:25.

Also David lied to get consecrated bread from the priest in Nob. he was hungry and distressed. Jesus didn't find anything wrong with eating the bread that was meant only for priests. (1 Samuel 21:6)

Although this is not an endorsement for lying or sinning even though David's lying caused the death of Abimelech (Ahijah) and his families.

**Related verses**: Matthew 12:1-5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3293682325099634822)


## MAT 12:36

I need to watch what I say and stop silly jokes. My word has consequences and is the basis for which I will be judged on that great day. I better say nothing than say nonsense

**Related verses**: Matthew 12:36. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3202471215353291194)


## MAT 12:32

Blaspheming against the Holy Spirit is speaking negatively of the work of the Holy Spirit in such a way that it prevents people from believing what he just did and cause people no to believe in the deity and saving power of Jesus Christ.

It is also attributing the works of the Holy Spirit to the devil

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 12:32. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2589867815012655267)


## MAT 12:30

There is no middle grounds. You either be for God or against God.

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 12:30. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2589866387665838233)


## MAT 12:29

Demons are strong men. You yourself needs to be armed and be able to overpower the strong man then he needs to be bound then you can rob him of everyone under his control.

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 12:29. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2589865251386941589)


## MAT 12:7

The sabbath isn't broken when 
- you eat because you are hungry
- heal the sick because they are oppressed


The purpose of the Sabbath was to give man rest and peace. The sabbath was for man's benefit and not to keep man in bondage.

It is very important to understand the scriptures otherwise we become self righteous like the Pharisees.

God desires mercy (compassion) and love towards others than following some rules and sacrificing.

It is not about our works because they are rags but our heart. God rather prefers our heart is with him than that we do everything for him without our heart in it

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 12:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2586119558423896234)


## MAT 12:7

Hosea 6:6 says God desires mercy instead of sacrifice and knowledge of God rather then burnt offerings.

- Obedience and mercy instead of sacrifice
- Listen and knowledge of God rather than burnt offering

The disciples were not guilty by plucking ears of corn on the sabbath but the Pharisees condemn them by saying it is unlawful to do what they did.

Jesus affirms himself as the Lord of the sabbath here

**Related verses**: Matthew 12:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2502958707735519359)


## MAT 12:43

When a life is at mess, think of possible demonic influence.

Let the Holy Spirit take over your life. 

There are levels of wickedness.
Demons work in teams 

Team of demons

1. Marriage spooling teams
2. Stealing team
3. Future spoiling team
4. Sex team (aim to kill or disgrace with STD
5. Divorce team
6. Nation spoiling team
7. Church spoiling team
8. Depressions team
9. Quarrelling team
10. Insecurity team

**Related verses**: Matthew 12:43-44. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2287387626196164854)

