
---
title: "MAT 13"
date: 2020-05-02 10:58:49 +00:00
book: MAT
draft: false
---

## MAT 13:44

David made preparations to build the temple but the site where it was to be built was not known but through the pestilence, the site where Solomon was to build it was revealed and David bought it from the hands of a Jebusite.

The kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field. When a man found it, he hid it again, and then in his joy went and sold all he had and bought that field - Matthew 13:44

**Related verses**: 2 Samuel 24:24, Matthew 13:44. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3420548274280194926)


## MAT 13:41

For the angels to GATHER THEM OUT, it means that they were already inside the kingdom. So I'll do more research on this

**Related verses**: Matthew 13:41. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3420539310582784760)


## MAT 13:12

I will get more of what I value and less of what I don't value

**Related verses**: Matthew 13:12. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3295819315790209251)


## MAT 13:46

the kingdom of God is worth more than everything I ever had.

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 13:46. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3220380446689583838)


## MAT 13:25

A period of inactivity and spiritual apathy was a great chance for the devil to sow tares among the good seeds.

God help me not to be complacent

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 13:25. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3216011854460215495)


## MAT 13:27

The man - Jesus. 
The wheat - Children of God (saved) 
The tares (weeds resembling wheat) - Unrepentant evil doer
Enemy - devil
Reapers - Angels
Field - The world
Barns - Heaven
Harvest time - End of the world

God didn't allow his servants to take actions of judgement against the unrepentant Sinners but postponed judgement till harvest time.

Also it wasn't for his servants but it was his angels to take the task of gathering the tares and throwing them away to be burned.

Tares look very similar to what's but the difference is apparent when it's fully matured.

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 13:24-30. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3216007761457045621)


## MAT 13:44

The kingdom of heaven is worth everything you ever owned. It is a treasure hidden and unknown to many. It should be something of great joy if you value your salvation. Everything is worth losing to follow Christ

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 13:44. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2838518444906504761)


## MAT 13:32

These are my interpretations:

1) Jesus is the seed buried in the earth, despised and rejected and after his was raised from the dead, he became Lord of all so that all nations would worship him and he will save many.

Jesus is the vine and we are the branches and we find shelter in him. People also find shelter in pastors connected to Jesus the Christ 

2) the word of God is the seed. (Jesus is also the word of God). When the word of God is preached, it may look like it didn?t accomplish much but it is powerful enough to change a person?s life.

But I prefer the first interpretation.

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 13:32. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2834919250769732472)


## MAT 13:29

God is so careful with just one wheat that not even one must be lost. We are the wheat in this scenario and one person is worth everything with God. One soul is very important that uprooting was not even allowed even though the tares will slow down the growth of the wheat.

One wheat (person) is of more value to God than everything in the world combined. God so loved us that his worth for one person is his own life.

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 13:29. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2834913730394579796)

