
---
title: "MAT 18"
date: 2020-05-18 05:14:44+00:00
draft: false
book: MAT
---

## MAT 18:19

Jesus had said where two or three are gathered in his name, the father would answer the prayers. On this principle, Jesus took Peter, James and John so they could intercede for him not to face the suffering on the cross.

Jesus returned to his disciples to receive confirmation of his answered prayer but the answer was no, they were all sleeping so prayer couldn't be answered. Jesus went the second time after encouraging them to pray and then he saw them sleeping again so answer was no,

He went to pray a third time and received confirmation of his prayer. The cup of suffering would not be taken away from him because he found the disciples sleeping and no one was awake to join in his prayer.

But an Angel came to strengthen him so he could endure the suffering to come.

Related verses: Matthew 18:19, Matthew 26:36-46. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3431971502429037462)


## MAT 18:3

Humility, repentance and trust is a vital requirement into entering the kingdom of God

Related verses: Matthew 18:3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3308320088369390165)


## MAT 18:32

It is evil to not forgive others after we've been forgiven by God. 

Unforgiveness opens the gate to hell because we can't pay the debts of sin we owe God just as the servant couldn't pay off the vast amount he owed his master.

One talent of silver was 15 years wages so 10,000 talents was worth 150,000 years lol. Even all his generations wouldn't be able to pay off the debt

Related verses: Matthew 18:32. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3206720645543748033)


## MAT 18:25

The king wanted to settle accounts with his slaves. A talent of silver is worth 15 years wages but this slave owed the king 10000 talents which is about 15 years worth of wages

He was the king?s subject slave but could not repay the debt. He had to be demoted from being a king?s to a lesser slave. Also he would lose all his property after all he ever owns has been sold.

There is no way he could have paid for everything yet the master cleared the debt out of compassion 

Even after this servant has been forgiven, he didn?t value it because he went to put his slave in prison for owing him 100 denarii (roughly 100 days wages.

In the end, because of his unforgiveness, he was thrown into jail. He will be there forever and his sons will be slaves forever to pay that debt.

It?s not just about forgiving, it?s about forgiving from the heart.

We may even end up in hell because of unforgiveness. We owe God more than 15 years worth of wages so to be forgiven, we need to forgive others first.

Related verses: MATTHEW 18:25. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2846484134321971316)


## MAT 18:14

God?s will is to see us saved from the penalty of eternal death through sin that is why Jesus came to seek and to save that which was lost.

One is very important among 99. Doesn?t mean the other 99 aren?t important, it means God values each and every soul.

Related verses: MATTHEW 18:14. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2846469088640491581)

