
---
title: "MAT 27"
date: 2018-03-27 00:27:04 +00:00
book: MAT
draft: false
---

## MAT 27:39

The same people whom he helped and spent his life to save were taunting him. Lord help us not to be ungrateful

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 27:39. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2864327320117436844)


## MAT 27:37

Even in his death, accusation didn?t stop

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 27:37. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2864325579808432544)


## MAT 27:35

Psalm 22:18 prophecy fulfilled. In fact Psalm 22 is a written version of Matthew 27.

Hundreds of years before Jesus was born. A time when crucifixion didn?t exist, a psalm was written that talked about the suffering of the messiah

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 27:35. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2864324946695020955)


## MAT 27:25

Exactly as Jesus had predicted in Matthew 23:29-36.

Their ancestors had killed the prophets indeed and even though they built nice tombstones for them, their descendants had a doing in the murder and crucifixion of Jesus.

Now the people are unknowingly placing a curse on themselves and their children.

The Jewish people has always been a hated people and have been subject to attacks in history.

Jesus surprisingly had been replaced so that a thief and murderer can be set free and he condemned though he was innocent.

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 27:25. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2862588541606290015)


## MAT 27:23

Even after Jesus had healed people, raised the dead, cast out demons from people, taught them etc, these people were still the people who said crucify him.

These people he fed, these people he prayed for, these people he cared for.

It was these people that called him master, these people few days ago were shouting hosanna and hailing him as king, 

These people called him teacher, these people called him Lord, these people called him Rabbi, these people called him Messiah and king.

Now I know not to be impressed by people?s talk, not to be surprised by people?s actions or to be worried about people?s threats. Only focus on God and his work.

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 27:23. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2862583979486995016)

