
---
title: "MAT 3"
date: 2020-07-02 07:12:30+00:00
book: MAT
draft: false
---

## MAT 3:17

The trinity present after the baptism just like in Genesis 1 where the trinity was also present. Just like in the ark of Noah (Jesus) that was baptised in the flood but then the dove (Symbolic of the Holy Spirit) was sent but couldn't find a place to land it's feet. The dove in Noah was able to land on an olive tree then it brought the leaf.

Likewise, the Holy Spirit finally came to rest on Jesus identifying him as the Anointed one (Olive tree)

**Related verses**: Matthew 3:16-17. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3464645685076026252)


## MAT 3:11

Baptism is an agreement and outward sign and public declaration of an inner change of mind and heart. Because it is public, it is visible to the public and humbling because people will see you and will know you agree that you are a sinner.

it took humility to be baptised. Christ was humble enough to get baptised. John was baptised from heaven (ordained by God. he was filled with the Holy Spirit from birth). Baptist wasn't new. the Jews knew about ritual purification already. only that John's baptism was the real manifestation of what the priests in old testament did. it was a sign of washing for forgiveness of sins but all things in the old testament was a type and shadow of what is to come.

In Leviticus, Spiritual Holiness was symbolised by physical perfection. In the new testament it was a transition from the outer cleanliness to inner purity.

Only those who truly repent receives the Holy Spirit who then makes them pure but those who refuse to repent faces wrath and judgement.

the water cleanses (from sin) but the fire purifies from impurities. Can I stand water and fire.

**Related verses**: Matthew 3:11, Luke 20:4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3464642139496637285)


## MAT 3:2

to repent is to change one's mind. unless the mind is changed, there can be no salvation and there can be no change of life because people don't want change. 

they are comfortable with what they are and their lifestyle

**Related verses**: Matthew 3:2. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3464635985110491974)


## MAT 3:14

The humility of John. Influenced by the Holy Spirit

**Related verses**: Matthew 3:14. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3266028217375122305)


## MAT 3:5

Exactly what also happened in the ministry of Jesus

**Related verses**: Matthew 3:5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3104278804945428791)

