
---
title: "MAT 4"
date: 2020-06-17 07:31:38 +00:00
book: MAT
draft: false
---

## MAT 4:4

The manna ceased but the law lasted forever. Man cannot live forever by eating bread or manna but man will have everlasting life if he abides by the word of God.

both manna and the commandments were given by God yet one was more important than the other.

The commandments lasted generations but the manna didn't even though both were provided by God. it goes to show that the spiritual is greater than the natural. this was what made the difference between Moses and Joshua vs the Israelites.

**Related verses**: Exodus 16:33-34, Deuteronomy 8:3, Matthew 4:4, Romans 8:6-8. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3453783682023416530)


## MAT 4:7

God has the power to do the impossible but we must not put ourselves in intentional situations that warrant us to be in trouble.

**Related verses**: Matthew 4:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3266037678508598178)


## MAT 4:6

Of the three instances of Jesus temptation, Jesus used the word of God to counter the devil?s speech. The first time, the devil couldn?t succeed and on his second attempt, he quoted scriptures which was very true of the scriptures although it was in a perverted way and Jesus countered it with the right scriptures.

I remember Jesus saying ?Jesus replied, "Are you not in error because you do not know the Scriptures or the power of God? (Matthew 12:24) 

so ignorance of the scriptures is not an excuse. Jesus definitely had learnt the scriptures from his childhood days because it couldn?t have been possible for Jesus to only have started learning the scriptures in his 40 days in the wilderness.

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 4:4, MATTHEW 4:6. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2814637979988648178)

