
---
title: "MAT 6"
date: 2020-01-25 11:43:24 +00:00
book: MAT
draft: false
---

## MAT 6:10

If I?m not doing God?s will, I am doing the devil?s will because there is no middle ground

**Related verses**: Matthew 6:10. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3349542691830227264)


## MAT 6:1

Jesus is warning me not to intentionally do good deeds so I can be seen.

There is a reward for doing good deeds, giving to the poor, praying and fasting.

God is my father and he gives, he is also a rewarder

**Related verses**: Matthew 6:1. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3281286175684026389)


## MAT 6:34

Tomorrow will do it?s own Job of worrying. That is one Job less for me.

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 6:34. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2818987955229286726)


## MAT 6:25

You don't know the future. There is no need to boast. Just trust in God and do not worry for the days trouble is enough of itself.

Instead seek first the kingdom of God and its righteousness and every other things (that people are dying for, going to jail for) will be added unto you

**Related verses**: 1 KINGS 20:11, MATTHEW 6:25-34. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2657249098847740653)


## MAT 6:8

God answers prayer if you ask for the right things
God knows what we need even before we ask him. Notice that in this verse, It is not about what we want but what we need.

Sometimes we feel like God doesn't answer our prayers. Forget about your request if your prayer is just about what you want all the time. Well except if it's God's will.

A simple example can be found in 1 Kings 3:4-10 where King Solomon asked for something he needed and it was even to do the work of God and in return, God was pleased with his request and granted him more than he requested. 

If you read 1 Kings 3 carefully, you will notice that in verse 11 onwards, God said "Since you have asked for this and not for LONG LIFE or WEALTH for YOURSELF (not for selfish reasons), nor have asked for the DEATH OF YOUR ENEMIES but for DISCERNMENT in administering justice (for the good of God's people), I will do what you have asked. I will give you a wise and discerning heart, so that there will never have been anyone like you, nor will there ever be. 13 Moreover, I will give you what you have not asked for?both wealth and honor?so that in your lifetime you will have no equal among kings". Lastly, God gave him a conditional blessing of long life if Solomon would keep God's decrees

Lessons
God answered Solomon's prayer because it was for selfless reason and a thing of need and not of want.
God gave him more than he asked for because it was for the good of God's people.
God even gave him what he didn't ask for because he didn't ask for tangible things like money, cars, wives etc. but he asked for spiritual qualities.
God elevated him high above all the kings of his time
God even made a deal with him about long life

Tip: In your prayers, do not ask for tangible things and for things you want and not in need of. Ask for something that will benefit people especially God's people. Also, don't ask for the death or hurt of your enemies and watch your prayers answered.

**Related verses**: Matthew 6:8. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2355174423277592629)

