
---
title: "MAT 7"
date: 2019-08-26 10:11:58 +00:00
book: MAT
draft: false
---

## MAT 7:24

The proof that I love Jesus is obeying is commandments. The effect of that is his presence because Jesus said he and his father will come to live with me. 

I already have the Holy spirit living in me but for Jesus and God to come as well that's another level.

Jesus already promised he's with me through the ages. I prepare God a secret place through obedience to his words.

Obeying Jesus words confers upon me divine wisdom because of his saying in Matthew 7:24 of the two house builders and their foundation.

**Related verses**: Exodus 20:6, Psalms 91:1, Matthew 7:24, John 14:15, John 14:23. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3239330756640367462)


## MAT 7:8

The burden is not on God to give but on us to ask and persist in asking. Things of no value can be gotten easily but it takes more effort to get things of high value, the higher the effort in relation to the higher the value of what is being asked for would be directly proportional to how long it will take to get it.

I learned many years ago that persistence can break the strongest of resistance. Back then it was actually true and then I heard it again.

Now I know I have to apply it in the things of God. Our level of relationship with God will also determine how easy we get things. If it?s just for us to lavish things and get famous, I don?t think God will give us what we ask for.

Asking the right things is another key to getting things from God.

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 7:8. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2819002731862942167)


## MAT 7:22

- Calling upon Jesus is not proof of entering the kingdom of heaven.
- Prophesying and operating in the gift of prophecy is not sign and a total assurance you will enter the kingdom of heaven
- Driving out demons (Healing) and miracles is not an assurance of salvation 


You must
- do the will of God
- depart from evil 
- put the word of Jesus into practice 

Otherwise all the gifts and powers are meaningless

**Related verses**: Matthew 7:21-23. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2500701522192229315)


## MAT 7:15

Watch out for those who come to you warmly, humble, righteous, harmless but their acts doesn't reflect their thoughts.

As soon as they get the chance, they will attack and lead you to destruction. You will know them as time goes by. You will know them by the product of their mouth and actions over time. Hypocrites and pretenders

**Related verses**: Matthew 7:15. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2500695922376958879)


## MAT 7:3

Pay attention to yourself first before you judge others. Judge. Yourself and leave the judgement of people to God. You are an hypocrite if you do that.

It is dangerous to see something wrong in others but not in yourself

**Related verses**: Matthew 7:3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2499985450254196833)


## MAT 7:1

Don't find fault with anyone because you have also done the same thing. You only judge because you have been judged the same way and you judge others just to be relieved and feel good. 

You judge others based on what you have done. The cycle never ends if one does not put a stop to judging others. People feel bad and run away from you when you are always criticising.

Don't condemn. The devil condemns but the Holy Spirit convicts. God is the ultimate judge and it's never in our power to judge others

Condemnation is to make you feel bad and bitter which gives way from demons to actively carry out their work, keep you in bondage, steal your joy, peace etc. whereas conviction is to make you sorry and give you an opportunity for repentance which brings health,healing, peace, freedom.


Scriptural reference
- Luke 5:32 - Come to call dinners to repentance
- Matthew 11:28 - come unto me all you who are weary and burdened and I'll give you rest
- John 3:17 - For God did not send his son into the world to condemn

**Related verses**: Matthew 7:1. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2499979354680582234)


## MAT 7:3

Lord help me to pay attention to myself first and not judge others

**Related verses**: Matthew 7:3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2498773069620568300)

