
---
title: "MAT 8"
date: 2017-12-23 13:41:23 +00:00
draft: false
book: MAT
---

## MAT 8:13

This time as well, we see God willing to heal the centurion servant. He was first acknowledged as Lord as with the other leper who got cleaned in the first verse.

We can go further to receive healing without the laying on of hands but through the WORDS of the anointed. This requires faith.

Related verses: MATTHEW 8:13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2796598196494393356)


## MAT 8:3

Jesus is willing to heal us and make us clean. We need to call on him. Healing was also imparted through touching.

Related verses: MATTHEW 8:3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2796595614673789927)


## MAT 8:28

It is amazing that these demon-possessed men were coming out of the tombs. It's completely abnormal for a sane person to be in the tomb. Why would they be found among the dead. Fortunately the one who is the way, the truth and the LIFE came again and turned their story around.

These two demoniacs blocked the way for people to pass by that place but when the WAY came by, the way was opened.

Related verses: MATTHEW 8:28. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2699586058702283247)


## MAT 8:27

What an extent of spiritual authority. Even his disciples had been with him but did not fully understand that he was he one who brought the winds and the sea into existence.

Jesus showed them that faith can calm the storm.

Related verses: MATTHEW 8:27. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2696363559067837278)


## MAT 8:32

Just as the pigs were led by demons to perish in the waters and led the demoniac almost to self destruction, without Jesus to the rescue, they will lead you and those whom the bible describes as pigs to hell

Related verses: MATTHEW 8:32. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2628262823633609273)


## MAT 8:14

All the apostles were married except Paul. Not sure if Barnabas ended up marrying.
(1 Corinthians 9:5)

It seems Simon, Andrew, Simon's wife and probably Simon's mother-in-law lived in the same house or maybe she came to visit

Peter's mother-in-law was suffering from high fever so he rebuked the fever and took her by the hand

Related verses: Matthew 8:14. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2560868637322502537)


## MAT 8:14

Jesus went to visit Peter at Capernaum. His mother-in-law was there sick with fever. 

The fever left her when HE TOUCHED her hand. (Point of contact)

As soon as she was healed, she served Jesus. Taiwo should aim to serve Jesus now that Jesus had healed him from sickness, washed away his filthy sins and blessed him with a new family and friends

Related verses: MATTHEW 8:14. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2560088691595535224)


## MAT 8:13

Your belief determines what you get. Doubt robs you of blessings.

Related verses: MATTHEW 8:13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2560085274017915756)


## MAT 8:8

Excercising great faith by believing in his word. Faith can and is grown through hearing positive things constantly. What you hear affect you and can either minister faith, fear or doubt.

He believed in Jesus word and it was accounted to him for great faith

Related verses: MATTHEW 8:8. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2560076437491802948)


## MAT 8:8

The centurion realise that there is power in the words of Jesus. He must have heard of his fame. 

Maybe perhaps an example is the other Roman soldier in John 6:52 whose son was sick and Jesus spoke a word and he was healed at that moment.

The centurion 
- Request
- Respect
- Humility
- Faith
- Response

The anointing worked in two instances because Jesus was respected and honoured. These coming from a leper and a gentile centurion

Related verses: MATTHEW 8:8. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2560074096734626619)


## MAT 8:12

Outside of the kingdom of heaven where the feast will take place will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.

May God help us to come into the feast

Related verses: Matthew 8:12. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2501441786598908759)


## MAT 8:7

The centurion's Servant was precious to him otherwise he won't have bothered to come to Jesus to ask him for healing this paralysed and terribly suffering servant. The cure Jesus prescribed for this was healing and not of casting out of devils.

Are we pleasing to God? Will God be to us as the centurion to his servant who was precious.

Another thing is that the centurion was humble to come and ask for help. He acknowledged Jesus as Lord then tendered his request. He showed his faith in that he said Jesus need not go with him but should speak the words. He recognised Jesus authority over demons and sickness and knew his words had power.

The centurion has done a lot of analysis from the testimony he had heard and thus had builded up faith in him. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God.

Jesus called the centurion's faith GREAT FAITH
I know this centurion isn't a Jew because of the words of Jesus. Jesus hadn't found anyone in Israel with great faith. The subject of the kingdom would be thrown outside

In the end, Jesus healed the servant by the centurion's faith. It was done according to his belief.

Which means our faith can provide healing for others but we first need to come and ask him. Acknowledge him, tender our request and have faith because it is not by magic or diffusion

Related verses: Matthew 8:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2501434591362671436)


## MAT 8:2

Leprosy is usually referred to as various kinds of skin diseases in the bible. This leprous man has also been isolated away from his loved ones because he was considered unclean. A lot of people in the crowd would have probably given way so that they wouldn't be unclean till evening but this man went to Jesus to have himself cleansed of the leprosy. 

The Pharisees would have thought Jesus to be unclean by touching leprous people but Jesus could cure leprosy which means he was like a soap washing away dirt.

The cleansing of the leprous man came not because of his will. His faith was put into action through the question he asked and Jesus responded with the willingness to cure him. He said I will.

This tells us that God is willing to do things for us . It's a matter of us coming to him and believing he is able to do abundantly more than we ask him

Related verses: Matthew 8:2-3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2501425973116527418)

