
---
title: "MAT 9"
date: 2019-11-02 08:44:06+00:00
book: MAT
draft: false
---

## MAT 9:7

If I do not forgive others, I will not receive forgiveness. it will ruin my relationship with God and will also hinder me receiving healing

**Related verses**: Matthew 9:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3288571284179116534)


## MAT 9:4

Jesus knew their thoughts on different occasions. Only God can read thoughts and they can be revealed to a human by the power of the Holy spirit

**Related verses**: Matthew 9:4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3288569861966127596)


## MAT 9:25

The supposed mourners were laughing at Jesus when he said the girl was not dead. Not everyone have true sympathy. Most are just for a show but Jesus sympathises with us.

Jesus actually left the place of the feast at Matthew?s house while they were eating and drinking to come and raise from the dead the daughter of the official. What a Jesus.

It was after they had sent the crowd outside that Jesus went in and performed the miracle. What is it crowding your heart that prevents Jesus from coming in? Give Jesus the chance in your life and he will turn the situation around.

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 9:24-25. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2823337600973791928)


## MAT 9:21

Faith comes with information. The little information we acquire will make a major impact on our life. I?m sure she had heard about the Lord?s healing power and it had developed faith in her.

Back in the Old Testament, the priests were commanded to teach the people (Leviticus 10:11, Deuteronomy 33:10, Malachi 2:7-8) and anoint the sick or leprous with oil (Leviticus 14:14-19) and they will be cleansed. Jesus was functioning in the role of a priest and he is indeed the great high priest

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 9:21. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2796614536999461190)


## MAT 9:21

The robe of the anointed can also be soaked in the healing anointing as we also saw with Peter?s shadow and Paul?s handkerchief.

As far as the examples I?ve seen, faith was used when healing is needed without physical contact with the anointed.

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 9:21. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2796601414951624776)


## MAT 9:24

The crowd's sympathy was superficial or otherwise a pretence. There was no true feelings involved only a show of "let's just go there and mark registers". I'm sure the professional mourners would be waiting to collect their wages as well.

The fact that a person is there crying crocodile tears doesn't mean they are truly sympathetic. Jesus words had been that of comfort. 

- "Do not be afraid son"
- "Daughter be of good cheer"
- "She is only sleeping"

Had these people not heard about the fame of Jesus healing the sick and doing many wonderful works?

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 9:24. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2571780773338931971)


## MAT 9:18

Jairus had faith. God will act with you on your level of faith. Jairus could have told Jesus to speak a word but instead he begged Jesus to come and lay hands on his dying daughter.

The woman with the issue of blood 12 years used this opportunity to get healed. She had heard about Jess and her faith had developed. She then acted on her faith.

Actions and faith puts God's power into action. There were probably large crowds there but none was healed except the woman with the issue of blood.

Anointing can be transferred through touching clothes or even the tassel of the anointed

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 9:18. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2565207188512170350)


## MAT 9:12

It was important that Jesus ate with tax collectors because they are also people he created. He wouldn't have fulfilled his calling if he secluded himself from the common people.

Amazingly, the population of the so-called sinners is very much in every country that's why even Paul had to be everything to every man that he may win some.

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 9:12. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2565188720446398743)

