
---
title: "JAS 4"
date: 2019-01-11 16:17:58 +00:00
book: JAS
draft: false
---

## JAS 4:7

I need to submit to God?s word and his authority then resist the devil.

Submission comes before resistance. I must resist evil after I have submitted to God and he will flee from me. My submission to God gives me authority over the devil.

Submission means to place yourself in the control of another. 

Just as yielding myself to do evil continually makes the Holy Spirit depart from me so is the same with yielding myself to God.

My submission to God must be complete and I shouldn?t make my mind interfere with every instruction I?ve been given. I don?t want to be like King Saul because I?m very prone to making the same mistakes.

King Saul wasn?t rejected because he told the Kenites to leave the Amalekites so they won?t be destroyed but the Bible states clearly why in 1 Samuel 15:9 ?but they spared the best and were UNWILLING to destroy ...?

I think the main reason was because of greed. For such large amount of spoils, they could take from the spoils of war at least the best because they destroyed the weak but left the best.

My obedience to God should be complete without compromise

**Related verses**: JAMES 4:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3074990885722383208)


## JAS 4:17

Negligence of doing good isn?t an excuse for me but it is counted as sin. I am obligated to do good as soon as it comes to my mind

**Related verses**: JAMES 4:17. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3074979309216850700)


## JAS 4:11

Judging my brother in Christ is judging the law of God because I am disobeying God?s commandments by criticising and judging him.

I will be disobeying God and that shows the extent of my relationship with him. I want to love God and not disobey him so I need to stop criticising my brother and instead speak well of him

**Related verses**: JAMES 4:11. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3074978048409068285)

