
---
title: "HEB 11"
date: 2016-10-06 06:45:34 +00:00
book: HEB
draft: false
---

## HEB 11:6

Faith(Pistis) is the very seed,the foundation and the ground work to the heart of God. Faith is needed to please God and faith is the result of the word of God.as it is written in Romans 10:17 - faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. 
Everything that ever was made was through faith because faith brings power just as the word of God is powerful and through the word of God, everything was created. 
Faith is what brings into reality the things of the imagination. Faith is what makes things which is not into things which is. Faith is what brings into manifestation the things yet unseen.

Faith is born out of the word of God and that is why God exalts his word above his name - Psalms 138:2

Faith gives you an excellent report, through it you obtain righteousness, through it, you please God.

Abraham believed God and it was accounted to him for righteousness. Are you going through anything at the moment. Chew on the word of God until faith is born and watch God in operation.

**Related verses**: Hebrews 11:6. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2475313253036318941)


## HEB 11:6

Faith is the very basis of pleasing God. And the foundation of faith is the word of God

**Related verses**: Hebrews 11:6. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2474586356606297009)


## HEB 11:7

Noah found grace through faith. he was willing to believe against all odds that the prophecies of the flood was real and true and he took action

**Related verses**: Genesis 6:8, Ephesians 2:8-9, Hebrews 11:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3538725977520333707)

