
---
title: "ROM 8"
date: 2020-06-17 07:31:38 +00:00
draft: false
book: ROM
---

## ROM 8:6

The manna ceased but the law lasted forever. Man cannot live forever by eating bread or manna but man will have everlasting life if he abides by the word of God.

both manna and the commandments were given by God yet one was more important than the other.

The commandments lasted generations but the manna didn't even though both were provided by God. it goes to show that the spiritual is greater than the natural. this was what made the difference between Moses and Joshua vs the Israelites.

Related verses: Exodus 16:33-34, Deuteronomy 8:3, Matthew 4:4, Romans 8:6-8. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3453783682023416530)


## ROM 8:31

I believe this Psalm was written when he fled from his son Absalom. His trusted friend and counsellor "Ahithophel" had connived with Absalom in his rebellion. Ahithophel's motive may have been because David slept with his grand daughter "BathSheba" and had his son's son-in-law Uriah killed in battle. 

In those days, Ahithophel's counsel was such that it was likened to when one inquired at the oracles of God (2 Samuel 16:23). 

David fled his throne at this rebellion and prayed that Ahithophel's counsel be turned into foolishness. Ahithophel's gave Absalom good counsel on how to get rid of David(The Lord's anointed) forever and he asked to be given 12,000 men to kill David.

Fortunately for David, his friend turned betrayer committed suicide(hanged himself) after his counsel was rejected although it was first thought a wise decision but God overthrew his wise counsel.

There is double fulfilment here as compared to Jesus. Judas Iscariot is the Ahithophel of the New Testament who betrayed Jesus and committed suicide. (John 13:18)


One thing to keep in mind is that it doesn't matter how many friends have turned into betrayers. It doesn't matter how many enemies are against you whether it be 12,000 chosen by an Ahithophel or 6,000 chosen by a Saul. As long as God is for you ...... Who can be against you? (You can answer that)

Related verses: Psalms 41:9, John 13:18, Romans 8:31. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2331564906052837691)


## ROM 8:6

Be strong in the Lord. Not in the gym, or physics, fighting, sports or in PhD. Don't get me wrong. Being strong in education or gym is good but the main aim is to be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might.

You must know God before you can be strong in the Lord.

Example, if you don't know about the country's system e.g. Free education till certain level in some countries, you would be at loss.

Know who God is. What he is capable of doing.

Strong - Greek. Dunamis (dynamo) 
To be strengthened, increase in strength,

Philippians 4:13 - (I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me)
 
Bring strong is a commandment 

2 Timothy 2:1 - Timothy, my dear son, be strong through the grace that God gives you in Christ Jesus

What it means to be a strong Christian

1. To go deeper into Christ - you need to be deep in Jesus. Psalm 42:7 (Deep calleth unto deep at the noise of the waterspout: all thy waves and thy bellows are gone over me)

2. Steadfastness/unmovable - 1 Corinthians 15:58 (therefore my beloved brother, be steadfast and unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord). 

When you commit yourself to God, you always feel the need to serve God, to do things for him, read the bible

3. Be spiritual (Romans 8:6) - For to be carnally minded is death but to be spiritually minded Is life and peace

James 3:15-17 - (This wisdom descendeth not from above but is earthly, sensual, devilish ... But the wisdom that is from this world is first pure, then peaceable, ... )






Related verses: Psalms 42:7, Romans 8:6, 1 Corinthians 15:28, Ephesians 6:10, Philippians 4:13, 2 Timothy 2:1, James 3:15-17. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2300240412843696251)

