
---
title: "2SA 10"
date: 2020-04-21 07:11:42 +00:00
book: 2SA
draft: false
---

## 2SA 10:4

For lack of good advice, a war started. David had good intentions but evil advice on the part of the counsellor of Hanun the King and his actions led to loss of people's lives.

Cutting of the beard was a sign of mourning as well as ripping of the garment. He in a way mocked the Elders of Israel to show mock mourning but not just that, what was worse is that ripping a garment to the hip was usually a demeaning act done to prisoners of war because their buttocks would be exposed if not their pants

**Related verses**: 2 Samuel 10:3-4, 1 Chronicles 19:4-5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3412461430288146983)


## 2SA 10:4

He made a mock of them such that they looked like mad men who had no sense. Hanun put them to shame

**Related verses**: 2 Samuel 10:4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3412448196378223046)


## 2SA 10:3

David has just decided to honour the son of a dead King because he had been gracious to David during his lifetime but unfortunately he got the wrong counsel from the princes(commanders) of his people(Ammonites). They advised him that David only wants to spy and overthrow it. Hanun the son of Nahash(the dead King) acted foolishly and disgraced the envoy David sent to comfort him.



In the end it lead to war and the ammonites only lost in the battle.

David had good intentions but wrong counsel from the ammonites to their King led to war.

Bible verses about counsel - Proverbs 12:15, 11:14, Proverbs 15:22, Psalms 1:1-6, 



Another example of bad counsel was in 1 Kings 12:6-19 where King Rehoboam received foolish counsel and acted upon it. In the end, he lost the respect and support of the people.

Proverbs 20:18 - Every purpose is established by counsel and with good advice make war.




Ref - Dakes annotated Reference bible

Natural carnal men cannot comprehend how anyone would want to respect, honour, and be concerned about another. This is because they live in a selfish world judging everybody even Men of God by their own standards.

The princes of Ammon encouraged their King to be suspicious of David's motive, to believe he really sent his servants to insult them and to act as spies with the view of overthrowing the ammonite kingdom. They took David's servants, shaved off half their beards, cut off their garments at the buttocks and sent them home.



David came to meet them after hearing of the disgraceful act of the ammonites . He told them to tarry at Jericho until their beards grew again.



The beard was considered a sign of manhood and shaving their beards would mean they were not man enough to come to their kingdom. Hanun treated David's ambassador with contempt and ridicule.. The mistreatment of David's servants was not necessary and wise for a young king. He played the part of a fool like Rehoboam(Solomon's son who didn't take after his father's wisdom)



**Related verses**: 2 Samuel 10:1-4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2318747984705872411)

