
---
title: "2SA 18"
date: 2020-04-27 09:34:09 +00:00
book: 2SA
draft: false
---

## 2SA 18:25

Basically if a man is running alone when bringing news of war then he has good news to tell and vice-versa

**Related verses**: 2 Samuel 18:25. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3416881777913618822)


## 2SA 18:22

In war, there was usually a runner who comes back home to bring the news of the outcome. Depending on the way the runner ran, people could detect of it was good or bad news.

This was the similar techniques used to explain the gospel in Isaiah 52:7. 

the bearer of good news usually received a reward. The outcome of the battle between Israel led by Absalom and David's men was twofold.

It was victory because they had won and it was bad news because Joab had disobeyed  David by killing Absalom.

**Related verses**: 2 Samuel 18:22. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3416880095838331254)


## 2SA 18:18

He had three sons but they all died before him. He also had a daughter whose name is Tamar (named after his sister)

**Related verses**: 2 Samuel 18:18. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3416877071334105435)


## 2SA 18:15

A warrior could have many armour bearers. but Joab's men obeyed Joab even though he disobeyed the King

**Related verses**: 2 Samuel 18:15. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3416876159618244947)


## 2SA 18:13

this guy knows the type of person Joab is lol. Joan would have killed him if he killed Absalom

**Related verses**: 2 Samuel 18:13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3416875616464265552)


## 2SA 18:11

Lord have mercy on Joab. he was full of revenge and killed anyone who got in his way even though he was a skilled fighter and a commander, hsj character let him down everytime.

Lord please help me to be obedient, humble and of a good character

**Related verses**: 2 Samuel 18:11. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3416870606066147645)


## 2SA 18:9

Absalom's hair (his pride and glory - because back then long hair was valued among men and was seen as a sign of beauty) became the cause of his downfall. He was hung in midair by his long hair

**Related verses**: 2 Samuel 18:9. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3416869666483331378)


## 2SA 18:33

We can liken this to our relationship with God.

We become God's son when we are born again. We tend to backslide because of offence in the Church and go back to the world. We even kick God out of our lives and become worse.

Even though God loves us so much, he doesn't want us to die in sin as our end will be to be cast out into the deep pit like Absalom. The father still loves us and will not immediately pass punishment on us.

Just as David loved Absalom in his rebellion, our heavenly father also loves us and would rather die in our place than see us perish. This is the reason for John 3:16

For David so loved his estranged and rebellious son Absalom that he would rather die in his place so that Absalom might live and not die.

God himself came in the form of flesh (Jesus the son of God) to die for our rebellion against God.

For God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life

**Related verses**: 2 Samuel 18:33. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2645726881752277941)

