
---
title: "2SA 6"
date: 2020-05-04 05:06:33 +00:00
draft: false
book: 2SA
---

## 2SA 6:11

Abundance of sons was a sign of God's blessings. the Bible said God blessed the house of Obed-edom on account of the ark that was kept in his place. He took care of God's ark and received a blessing. 

He also had the privilege to be a gatekeeper on the side where the King was to pass so he got to see the King everytime

Related verses: 2 Samuel 6:11, 1 Chronicles 26:4-5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3421820525197648595)


## 2SA 6:21

David had intention to bless his house but Michal had intention to insult the king. David wasn't naked by the way. he was wearing the short priestly linen ephod (a close-fitting, sleeveless pullover usually of hip length) rather than his kingly robe.

I think it was jealousy and pride that made Michal speak out especially because David was dancing in front of his maid servants while Michal was watching from the window.

unfortunately David wanted to bless his household but Michal received a curse instead.

Related verses: 2 Samuel 6:20-23. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3410332052771037463)


## 2SA 6:16

i must not see myself as too dignified regarding any position I occupy. I must be careful not to let pride overtake me. Michal viewed David with contempt and became barren.

It is true I need to keep my heart with all diligence otherwise it will affect the course of my whole life

Related verses: 2 Samuel 6:16. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3409550676501192715)


## 2SA 6:11

After the mistake of transporting the ark like the Philistines, the ark was placed in the house of Obed-Edom and God blessed him

Related verses: 2 Samuel 6:11. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3409420574140391740)


## 2SA 6:7

God saw the touching of the ark as irreverence. God didn't kill the Philistines when they've sent the ark to Israel.

God had shown Israel how to move the ark. it was to be through priests carrying it by the poles but Israel moved the ark on a cart moved by a cow and God killed Uzzah for his error.

it's not enough to do good. in fact doing good can be deadly if it's not inline with God's instructions

Related verses: 2 Samuel 6:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3408858399697002787)

