
---
title: "2CO 4"
date: 2020-06-09 06:48:49 +00:00
draft: false
book: 2CO
---

## 2CO 4:4

Solomon prayed for an understanding mind and a hearing (obedient heart). Understanding is really important in administer justice as the King and representatives of God.

I as a Christian represent the Lord Jesus and need understanding to obey the words of God. Unless God opens my mind, I may never understand many things that I have been taught. Since my mind needs to be renewed by the word of God, it becomes easier when I pray for God to give me an understanding mind and an obedient heart.

Understanding things helps me to be more obedient. Until Jesus opened the minds of the disciples on the way to Emmaus, they didn?t know they were walking and talking with Jesus. After that they understood the scriptures they had been reading from their youth and the things Jesus had spent 3 years to teach them

Solomon was in his 20?s when he became king but he needed understanding to be able to lead. To be a good shepherd, I need understanding of how to lead and shepherd my sheep.

By reading books and praying to God for understanding, I will be able to fight against the devil?s scheme.


?among them the god of this world [Satan] has blinded the minds of the unbelieving to prevent them from seeing the illuminating light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God.?
? ??2 Corinthians? ?4:4??

May God give us an understanding mind and a hearing heart as we go by in our daily lives

Related verses: 1 Kings 3:9, Psalms 32:9, Luke 24:45, 2 Corinthians 4:4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3447963928742322447)


## 2CO 4:4

People cannot understand the truth let alone believe it because their minds had been blinded by a veil caused by Satan. The veil can only be removed when we believe in Jesus.

This is why evangelists and preachers are needed

Related verses: Romans 10:13-16, 2 Corinthians 3:14, 2 Corinthians 4:4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3183555190901695401)


## 2CO 4:4

The devil blinds the mind to prevent the light of the gospel from illuminating the lives of unbelievers.

To bewitch is to smite the eye, to cause to be blind to.

The mind is a powerful tool for God and the enemy. This is why God talks about meditating on the word of God.

Joshua 1:9 - ... But thought shalt meditate day and night.

Psalms 119:27 - the psalmist says he was made wiser than his teachers through meditating on God's word. He talks about the word of God being a light and a lamp to guide, direct and illuminate his decisions.

Faith is born from hearing the word of God. The gospel channels illumination to the unbelievers mind thereby attacking the stronghold already built up in their minds.

.. casting down imaginations - Ephesians 6

Related verses: 2 CORINTHIANS 4:4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2978341373755515850)

