
---
title: "RUT 1"
date: 2020-03-23 02:57:26+00:00
book: RUT
draft: false
---

## RUT 1:2

Ruth was married to Mahlon (Ruth 4:10) while Orpah was married to Chilion

**Related verses**: Ruth 1:2. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3391314954896008180)


## RUT 1:15

Orphan went back to her people and to her gods and we never heard of her again

**Related verses**: Ruth 1:15. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2608736793969549776)


## RUT 1:8

The test of faithfulness 

Before a great blessing is the test of faithfulness and loyalty to enter into another dimension of the anointing. Although Ruth and Oprah wanted to follow Naomi but after much pleading and discouragement, Oprah left but Ruth Got the blessings. She became the great grandmother of King David. Her name made it to the generations of Jesus Christ the King of Kings. She is still remembered up till today and a book was dedicated to her and her generations afterwards. She wasn't even an Israelite

Ruth persisted to go with Naomi 

Abraham to Lot ??
Naomi to Ruth ??, Orpah??
Elijah to Elisha ??
Jesus to 12 disciples ??

Lessons to learn
- endure persecution to the end and enjoy the glory
- Ruth probably found salvation because she decided to embrace the God of Israel over the gods of Moab
- Be determined to go all the way to the end 
- stick to people through thick and thin
- Persistence breaks resistance

**Related verses**: RUTH 1:8. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2608728962121851318)


## RUT 1:16

May God do to me as he has done to you?

Ruth now had no husband and any child so how can God do to her as he had done to Naomi?

Perhaps she didn't mean it that way or she had faith that all will be well. She also accepted the God of Israel over the gods of Moab.

The test of blessings separates the true seekers from the followers

**Related verses**: Ruth 1:16-17. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2608721281520755068)

