
---
title: "RUT 4"
date: 2017-04-10 07:43:29 +00:00
book: RUT
draft: false
---

## RUT 4:21

Third generation from Aaron since Aaron married Elisheba the sister of Nahshon. Elisheba was from the tribe of Judah and married Aaron from a Levite clan

**Related verses**: RUTH 4:21. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2610150716623020971)


## RUT 4:20

Amminadab was the father of Elisheba wife of Aaron and sister of Nahshon.

David was from a kingly lineage (Judah) just as Jesus was.

**Related verses**: RUTH 4:20. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2610146953426363293)


## RUT 4:17

First recorded boy given a name by neighbours. (if I am correct) but I haven't seen anywhere else

**Related verses**: RUTH 4:17. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2610145521608418204)


## RUT 4:15

A truly virtuous woman whose worth is more than that of seven sons.

**Related verses**: RUTH 4:15. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2610134718733869974)


## RUT 4:15

Agape love accomplishes and helps in times of suffering. The love Ruth had for Naomi allowed her to persevere in times of hunger, sorrow and grief. Some crazy women would say, 

"I don't want anything to do with you because you are cursed. Can't you see you are  the cause of everything, you are a witch because you killed your husband and two children"

Ruth a Moabitess is the story of a virtuous woman. Hardworking, lovely, obedient and faithful. In the end her sorrow was turned to Joy. She was blessed multiple times both by Naomi, Boaz, neighbours and the elders of the city.

Ruth the former wife of Mahlon, son of Elimelech graduated from the height of despair and poverty to joy and wealth through marrying Boaz.


This story of Ruth who came to trust in the God of Israel and worked in the harvest field of Boaz and finally got married to him can be likened to we coming to Christ from the world now washing  ourself with the water of the word and anointing ourselves with the oil of the Holy Spirit enabled us to prepare. No one could redeem us until Christ came on the scene


Through selfless love and the obedience of Moses, Israel was brought from slavery and unrest to freedom and rest. Through selfless love and obedience for Israel, David brought his people Israel to rest. Through selfless love and obedience of Jesus Christ, he brought us from slavery and sin to freedom and holiness in God's perfect rest.


What to do
- I must be selfless and love others so that God can bless them through me
- I must learn to trust God
- be hardworking, loving, kind and God-fearing

**Related verses**: RUTH 4:14-15. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2609924256570270713)

