
---
title: "JOS 20"
date: 2017-02-25 08:09:16 +00:00
book: JOS
draft: false
---

## JOS 20:6

God has provided a way by right we must be saved from our sins. It is up to us to run to Jesus, our city of refuge. These city of refuge were only for those who committed murder unintentionally whether stranger or native Israelite. Since Jesus our high priest has offered the sacrifice of sins once and for all, we are discharged and acquitted indefinitely and since he ever liveth to make intercession for us, we are saved and forgiven of our sins. We also have the privilege of remaining forever in the city of refuge


Jesus is
- Our city of refuge
- Our high priest
- our saviour
- the gate to the city of refuge


-----------------------


Pastor Chris Battle
Tabernacle Baptist Church
Knoxville, TN
1/3/2016

The Levites received 48 allotments of land. 6 of the 48 were designated as cities of refuge.

These cities are an image of Jesus:

1. The PURPOSE of the city(v. 1-3)
These cities were setup to protect the person who accidentally killed someone. This wasn't setup for people who wanted to get even.

Exodus 22:1-5

Numbers 35:19-21
The nearest kinsmen of the person who gets killed had the right to avenge the blood 

2. The PROVIDER of the city
By God and grace!

3. The PROVISION of the city (v. 9)
God made provision for EVERYBODY to be saved!

Galatians 3:28

No one is too lost to be found or too bad to be forgiven!

4. The POWER of the city (4-6, 9)
The city had the power to save and secure. As long as the slayer stayed I the city, he/she was safe. We too are safe and secure as long as we abide in HIM!

5. The POSITION of the cities (v. 7-9)
They were spread out but they were close by. The roads to the city were never clogged and clear from destruction and debris. The direction was never confused. Miklat (Hebrew word for "Refuge") was written on the signs.

6. The PICTURE in these cities (v. 7-8)
Kadesh = Righteousness (Isa. 64:4; 2 Cor. 5:21)
Shechem =  Shoulder (Luke 15:3-7)
Hebron = Fellowship (1 John 1:7)
Bezer = Fortress (Hebrews 18:2)
Ramoth = Heights or Exalted (Eph. 2:6)
Golan = Joy (1 Peter 1:8)

7. The PRIORITY of the city
The manslayer was not to linger around. He/she was to run IMMEDIATELY to the city of refuge as soon they realize they've committed murder.

2 Cor. 6:2

All of us are born sinners. Even though it's not our fault that we are born that way. But it is my fault if I stay that way! We are guilty by birth and by practice. There is a death sentence on us ALL. We are all being pursued by an avenger of blood and we need a refuge...a place of salvation...a place to run to...to a place for our soul.

There is a place...IN GOD!

Psalm 46:1, 7, 11
Psalm 48:3
Psalm 57:1
Psalm 59:16
Psalm 62:7, 8
Psalm 71:7
Psalm 91:2, 9
Psalm 94:22

2 Samuel 2; 2 Samuel 3:32-34
The story of Abner being pursued by Asahel. David says Abner died like a fool in a city of refuge.

Salvation only comes through Jesus. Don't die like a fool!

**Related verses**: JOSHUA 20:6. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2578273535211070200)

