
---
title: "NUM 14"
date: 2020-02-19 13:57:44+00:00
book: NUM
draft: false
---

## NUM 14:16

that would have made a mockery of the fame, glory, power and name of the God of the Israelites

**Related verses**: Numbers 14:16. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3367729692182045571)


## NUM 14:20

An intercessor

**Related verses**: Numbers 14:20. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2558465488355844217)


## NUM 14:9

Joshua had faith and just like his Heavenly Father, he encouraged the Israelites not to fear. He was trying to direct their attention to looking unto God and not to the present circumstance

**Related verses**: Numbers 14:9. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2558457826746556516)


## NUM 14:2

God detests murmuring. Rather than murmur or worry, why not praise God for the things he has done in the past, what he is doing in the present and what he has promised to do for the future.

Listening to evil reports and believing them  could also have you destroyed even if you are innocent. If you go with the crowd, anything that runs them over will certainly do the same with you.

You can be a great leader and still have opposition so don't be worried if you face opposition. Didn't God promise to take them to the land of Canaan, but they let their worries destroy them. Don't let circumstances shake your faith and make you turn to doubt and unbelief.

Be careful what you wish for, these people wished for death in Egypt and in the wilderness after God had brought them out of it. A journey that wouldn't have lasted 2 weeks ended up as a 40 year journey.

The way you see God, yourself and the situation at hand will determine your response and the result.

- See God as the greatest above all.
- See yourself as the one he cares for and is fighting for 
- See your situation as nothing compared to the majesty of God

**Related verses**: Numbers 14:2. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2556025969773896331)

