
---
title: "NEH 4"
date: 2017-07-08 07:48:46 +00:00
book: NEH
draft: false
---

## NEH 4:20

OUR GOD WILL FIGHT FOR US

What a leader serving a great God

**Related verses**: NEHEMIAH 4:20. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2674658393499362068)


## NEH 4:14

When you are discouraged, that is the time never to give up but recount all of God's goodness in times past. Nehemiah used that to encourage his people (Nehemiah 4:14). 

David before he became king when against Goliath wasn't discouraged or afraid of his life but he simply encouraged himself by speaking out what God has done for him in times past (1 Samuel 17:37)

When he was to be stoned by his followers when the Amalekites invaded Ziklag and took everything including their families, David encouraged himself in the Lord (1 Samuel 30:6)

**Related verses**: NEHEMIAH 4:14. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2674656485250425613)


## NEH 4:8

What could have enraged these people because the walls of Jerusalem was almost completed. They were so enraged that they wanted to come and attack in battle.

I don't think this is just a natural matter. It may as well have a spiritual cause.

When the wall of Jerusalem is build, the people will be able to worship God better and have a sense of security.

Many people don't want Christians to do well. It is even sad that many Christians want their pastors to die broke and ragged. 

God isn't opposed to his people becoming rich. He only hates greed and covetousness. - Kenneth Hagin 

The walls of our soul are broken down only because we refuse to listen to God and do what we want. This then gives the enemies the opportunity to invade us. When our walls are broken down, we give various demons access to our soul. Foul spirits of heaviness, depression, anxiety, homosexuality, drunkenness and all sorts.

The only way to rebuild it is to come back to Jesus who is our first love. We need to be rooted in the rock of ages. Jesus is our chief corner stone, the rock, our stronghikd, our shield and buckler and our builder.

We need to run back to him and ask for forgiveness

**Related verses**: NEHEMIAH 4:7-8. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2674652185736504051)


## NEH 4:6

There is great progress when the people are united and have a heart to work. Both of them are needed

**Related verses**: NEHEMIAH 4:6. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2674634269683081793)

