
---
title: "NEH 6"
date: 2017-07-09 00:51:07+00:00
book: NEH
draft: false
---

## NEH 6:16

Wow I've come to love Nehemiah. He always thought about God in all he was doing. He never gave up in the face of adversity. When the people was discouraged, he encouraged them in the Lord. When his life was in danger, he never feared but trusted in God.

Finally he attributed completing the rebuilding of the walls of Jerusalem to help from God. 

While many could have said, we used some genius minds, technical capabilities and other big words and in the end our efforts paid off, Nehemiah attributed things to God and didn't take credit for it 

True humility is not to look debased, sad and whimpy like a nonentity but to attribute things to the right source which is God

**Related verses**: NEHEMIAH 6:16. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2675172962609127718)


## NEH 6:14

Tobiah, Sanballat, Noadiah (a prophetess) and many other false prophets were trying to dissuade Nehemiah from completing the works but God was with Nehemiah. 

They tried to frighten Nehemiah but none of them was successful

**Related verses**: NEHEMIAH 6:14. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2675168869622735119)


## NEH 6:12

Wow. Enemies appearing as a friend. A wolf in sheep's clothing. He had taken a bribe like Judas. 

Thank God Nehemiah was a godly man. Because he served God and loved God, I believe God helped him discern the evil that was plotted against him

**Related verses**: NEHEMIAH 6:12. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2675167398596436231)


## NEH 6:9

As far as this chapter I have read, Nehemiah is a great leader. A man of prayer. It could be short but he trusted in God and was courageous. Nothing could move him from accomplishing his mission in building the temple and the wall of Jerusalem.

Even though he was a man of high importance in the Persian kingdom, he didn't abuse his position of authority. He never said he was too busy to pray.

**Related verses**: NEHEMIAH 6:9. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2675165735169024255)

