
---
title: "DAN 5"
date: 2020-07-25 12:02:49+00:00
book: DAN
draft: false
---

## DAN 5:27

A throne is established by righteous judgement. Belshazzar was found wanting on the scale of righteousness and judgement has been set. the climax of his unrighteous act was dishonouring God by drinking from the cup of God and praising idols

**Related verses**: Daniel 5:27. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3481461645682401951)


## DAN 5:18

It was God who have King Nebuchadnezzar the kingdom as well as greatness, glory and majesty. this compelled nations to be subjected to him

**Related verses**: Daniel 5:18. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3481457709227434590)


## DAN 5:4

this is the climax of what caused the judgement. they drank wine from God's cup and praised not the God of heaven but the idols made in the image of demons.

Just like man was made from dust of the earth in the image of God and God's spirit was put in him, so men formed idols of gold, silver, bronze, wood and stone (found in or of the earth) and conjured evil spirits to dwell in them.

the main reason for judgement was that they praised idols and used the things of God to do this. God does not share his glory

**Related verses**: Daniel 5:4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3481439917602234720)


## DAN 5:2

Beltedhazzar an ancestor of Nebuchadnezzar crossed his boundary and mocked God by drinking from the cup of God's temple. A sign of disrespect and judgement was passed on him immediately.

he repeated the same thing his forefather had done and Daniel was there to interprete the handwriting on the wall

**Related verses**: Daniel 5:2. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3481436491224965431)

