
---
title: "2CH 20"
date: 2018-01-09 15:03:14 +00:00
draft: false
book: 2CH
---

## 2CH 20:23

It is very possible that what happened was along these lines:

Moab and Ammon are descended from lot whereas Edom and Israel are descended from Isaac. It could be that Moab and Ammon conspired to destroy Edom thinking that Edom could end up turning against them since Edom and Israel were of the same parents. So after Moab and Ammon had annihilated Edom, they probably realised that one had destroyed Edom since one had a strong alliance with Edom so one decided a revenge and they started fighting against each other.

Related verses: 2 CHRONICLES 20:23. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2808960584472322844)


## 2CH 20:20

It starts with believing. God assures establishment and the belief in his prophets ensures success.

Related verses: 2 CHRONICLES 20:20. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2808950007200998057)


## 2CH 20:15

When we call God to the scene. He takes over our battles from us . He converts the live performance we are acting to a movie we are watching 
.

Related verses: 2 CHRONICLES 20:15. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2808947376005046928)


## 2CH 20:22

God fought the war for Israel. All they did was praise and sing to God and their enemies were destroyed.

- The Lord fight for them
- the Lord made them rejoice over their enemies
- God gave them rest on all sides.

Now I see the power of praise and worship. It invokes God to act on our behalf. 

The enemy was confused. It is true. Imagine someone expects you to be sad and you are smiling and thanking God. Won?t they be confused. They lifted up praises before lifting up any sword. That is how it should be done

Related verses: 2 CHRONICLES 20:22. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2794763740154421271)

