
---
title: "LUK 24"
date: 2020-06-09 06:48:49 +00:00
draft: false
book: LUK
---

## LUK 24:45

Solomon prayed for an understanding mind and a hearing (obedient heart). Understanding is really important in administer justice as the King and representatives of God.

I as a Christian represent the Lord Jesus and need understanding to obey the words of God. Unless God opens my mind, I may never understand many things that I have been taught. Since my mind needs to be renewed by the word of God, it becomes easier when I pray for God to give me an understanding mind and an obedient heart.

Understanding things helps me to be more obedient. Until Jesus opened the minds of the disciples on the way to Emmaus, they didn?t know they were walking and talking with Jesus. After that they understood the scriptures they had been reading from their youth and the things Jesus had spent 3 years to teach them

Solomon was in his 20?s when he became king but he needed understanding to be able to lead. To be a good shepherd, I need understanding of how to lead and shepherd my sheep.

By reading books and praying to God for understanding, I will be able to fight against the devil?s scheme.


?among them the god of this world [Satan] has blinded the minds of the unbelieving to prevent them from seeing the illuminating light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God.?
? ??2 Corinthians? ?4:4??

May God give us an understanding mind and a hearing heart as we go by in our daily lives

Related verses: 1 Kings 3:9, Psalms 32:9, Luke 24:45, 2 Corinthians 4:4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3447963928742322447)


## LUK 24:47

It was necessary that the preaching of the gospel will start from Jerusalem that is why Jesus told them to go back to Jerusalem to await the outpouring of the Holy Spirit

Related verses: Luke 24:47. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3332402465949344680)


## LUK 24:33

Why were they going to Emmaus. Didn't Jesus tell them to go to Galilee before he died. Out of mercy, Jesus explained the scriptures to them and opened their eyes and gave them the privilege of seeing Jesus raised from the dead

Related verses: Luke 24:33. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3320445642463764905)


## LUK 24:35

Their eyes were opened and they recognised Jesus when he broke bread (communion)

Related verses: Luke 24:35. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3320444621175906726)

