
---
title: "LUK 4"
date: 2019-12-21 12:12:47 +00:00
book: LUK
draft: false
---

## LUK 4:28

God's grace to the gentiles was the major reason why Jesus was rejected in his hometown and thereby they stumbled at the Messiah and could not receive him

**Related verses**: Luke 4:28. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3324190329951478640)


## LUK 4:29

The answer was simple. It was from God. When I learn to look at the right things, I will be blessed and have more understanding.

Jesus was a carpenter and it was only possible to have performed his miracles through God. They could not believe a carpenter whom they knew came from a poor background could be used by God.

... What is this wisdom that has been given unto him ...
Jesus himself said a man can receive nothing unless it is given to him from above (John 3:27)

Jesus had just gone back to his hometown of Nazareth in Galilee and as was the custom to preach on the Sabbath because that was when public reading of the scriptures was done, he was rejected.

Firstly, It was derogatory in Jewish custom to refer to a man by his mother's name. It could easily man, a child of unknown father.

Secondly, they could not believe someone they grew up knowing who came from a poor background was the anointed one God was going to use. They could not see him as higher than themselves and found it impossible to believe he was the son of God.

Jesus background would have naturally unqualified him as the son of God. Born of a virgin (which is very hard to believe), had poor background, uneducated, lived among gentiles in the hometown of Nazareth in Galilee (can anything good come from Nazareth [John 1:43-46]).

**Related verses**: Mark 6:2-6, Luke 4:23-30. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3324176571292181199)


## LUK 4:23

After Jesus was baptized for the forgiveness of sin, he received the Holy spirit and was led by the Spirit to be tempted by the devil.

After his temptation, he was filled with the power of the Holy Spirit. As he went to teach in his hometown, the opened the scroll of the prophet Isaiah and read it.

As he confirmed the fulfilment of the scriptures, they were astonished at his presumption.

They probably thought this guy has never been to school. What right does he have to say 

"a prophesy has just come to pass in our ears"

They also insulted him by saying 

"is this not Mary's son ..." Because a man was never referred to by his mother's name in Israel

Joseph was a poor man so much do that they couldn't even afford a lamb for Christ at the showing in the temple after the day of purification (Luke 2:24) but instead offered a turtle dove.

Jesus then gave two examples of Elisha and Elijah who wasn't accepted in their hometown.


Examples of people Jesus used as examples when referring to himself: Solomon, Elijah, Elisha, Jonah

**Related verses**: Luke 4:23-27. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3178521368862646410)


## LUK 4:7

WHAT DOES THE SCRIPTURE SAY?

Three voices in this verse

the devil's voice - *IF* you worship, you'll get all. All about taking shortcuts.

Jesus's voice was in sync with what the scripture said.

Worshipping God is a command and not a choice.

**Related verses**: Luke 4:7-8. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3159620331028341680)


## LUK 4:18

After anointing comes the spirit of the Lord upon a person with power for warfare

**Related verses**: 1 SAMUEL 16:13, ISAIAH 61:1, LUKE 4:18. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2630973176704393828)

