
---
title: "JOB 1"
date: 2020-07-08 05:13:44 +00:00
book: JOB
draft: false
---

## JOB 1:1

If I want to depart from evil, I must reverence God and this is God's wisdom and greatness in God's sight. An example is Job who feared God and shunned evil and was described as the greatest of the men of the east.

**Related verses**: Job 1:1, Job 28:28, Proverbs 16:6. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3468934557419168364)


## JOB 1:1

the reason is because Solomon's wisdom was not of this world. it was God's wisdom. the wisdom of God although foolishness to men elevated Solomon to the highest position of honour just like it did for Job who was the greatest of the men of the east because he feared God and shunned evil.

Solomon's God-given wisdom was tested when he was confronted with two harlots thing over whose child was the dead one and which was the living one.

when he requested for the sword,his subjects would have thought he was out of his mind but the sword was to know the thoughts and intentions of the heart of the two harlots.

**Related verses**: 2 Chronicles 9:22, Job 1:1, Job 1:3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3457301328102678541)


## JOB 1:21

What a man. A financial tycoon. A spiritual giant, a great man lost everything overnight and yet he did not curse God.

What a man. Imagine waking up one day and offering burnt offerings to God for 10 children and hear that 7000 sheeps (goods) are dead, 3000 camels (cars) have been stolen, more than 99.9% of your servants (employees) are dead and your 10 children who are meant to inherit and keep you company are also dead all in a day.


How could Job have borne so many bad news in a single day. The Bible says that God is faithful and will not allow us to be tested beyond our capacity to bear it but he will provide a way out - 1 Corinthians 10:13.

For Job to have been heavily tested that way reveals Job's level of spirituality and yet he didn't sin not curse God.

What are you going through. Is it because you didn't eat at night because there was no money or you lost a loved one and then you say "There is no God".

Don't make a mistake and forfeit your destiny. This is the time to be faithful and realise you are being tested. Be faithful through your temptations and trials and when you come out of it, God will bless you more.

**Related verses**: JOB 1:21. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2679795807339405492)


## JOB 1:8

God's testimony of a man named Job. What a man. He was rich but didn't say he doesn't need God anymore and that there is no God.


Wealthy and the greatest of all the men in the east. None was like him in all the earth yet he was blameless and upright.

What is your excuse for not serving God?

**Related verses**: JOB 1:8. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2679780416047276191)

