
---
title: "DAN 1"
date: 2020-07-12 10:14:23+00:00
book: DAN
draft: false
---

## DAN 1:7

names are used as identity and they have meaning. they reveal the character and attributes of a person.

The four men's names were changed to affect their desire for the true God. Israel wanted to serve idols and God gave them their desires and took them to a land where they could serve a lot of gods.

Everything in Babylon was set up to change the culture and mindset of the Israelites but Daniel, Azariah, Mishael and Hananiah were different.

they resolved not to eat unclean food and break the law of their God

**Related verses**: Daniel 1:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3471984990127645516)


## DAN 1:16

They are vegetables for 3 years. They lived as vegetarians for 3 years before entering into the service of King Nebuchadnezzar

**Related verses**: Daniel 1:16. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3616175413992874065)


## DAN 1:12

Vegetables and water in place of the food/meat and wine offered to idols. To me it looks like a type of fast. He didn't eat pleasant bread.

They were indoctrinating them with the culture of Babylon and giving them food offered to idols.

Just as in Israel, the food was first offered by the priest to God then the priest are the other portion as well as the person if it's a Thanksgiving and peace offering

**Related verses**: Daniel 1:12. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3616174100815011913)


## DAN 1:2

Nebuchadnezzar brought the articles from Jerusalem to Shinah into the house of his god in order to attribute the victory to his god even though God was the one who gave him the victory

Similarly when David won the battle against Goliath, he dedicated the sword of Goliath by leaving it in the temple.

How much more must I attribute every victory to God who has given me the strength to achieve whatever I did.

**Related verses**: Daniel 1:2. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3616166253817487363)

