
---
title: "PSA 41"
date: 2020-05-16 14:22:29+00:00
book: PSA
draft: false
---

## PSA 41:1

The helpless consists of the widow, orphans, strangers (aliens) in a country, the poor and those that look up to God for support and help. God has personally taken it upon himself to help them and I would do good to also help them (undertaking the work of God) and God will in return continue to bless me as I pour out the blessing to others.

God will save from trouble, protect from the enemies and restore to health

**Related verses**: Psalms 41:1-3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3430797644640543355)


## PSA 41:9

A double reference to both David-Ahitophel and Jesus-Judas relationship

**Related verses**: PSALMS 41:9. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3073439694521623242)


## PSA 41:9

May I never be a judas in Jesus name. This prophesy psalm could either be linked to David/Ahithophel's relationship or Jesus/Judas relationship

**Related verses**: Psalms 41:9. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2553059270086877835)


## PSA 41:9

I believe this Psalm was written when he fled from his son Absalom. His trusted friend and counsellor "Ahithophel" had connived with Absalom in his rebellion. Ahithophel's motive may have been because David slept with his grand daughter "BathSheba" and had his son's son-in-law Uriah killed in battle. 

In those days, Ahithophel's counsel was such that it was likened to when one inquired at the oracles of God (2 Samuel 16:23). 

David fled his throne at this rebellion and prayed that Ahithophel's counsel be turned into foolishness. Ahithophel's gave Absalom good counsel on how to get rid of David(The Lord's anointed) forever and he asked to be given 12,000 men to kill David.

Fortunately for David, his friend turned betrayer committed suicide(hanged himself) after his counsel was rejected although it was first thought a wise decision but God overthrew his wise counsel.

There is double fulfilment here as compared to Jesus. Judas Iscariot is the Ahithophel of the New Testament who betrayed Jesus and committed suicide. (John 13:18)


One thing to keep in mind is that it doesn't matter how many friends have turned into betrayers. It doesn't matter how many enemies are against you whether it be 12,000 chosen by an Ahithophel or 6,000 chosen by a Saul. As long as God is for you ...... Who can be against you? (You can answer that)

**Related verses**: Psalms 41:9, John 13:18, Romans 8:31. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2331564906052837691)

