
---
title: "EXO 16"
date: 2020-06-17 07:31:38 +00:00
draft: false
book: EXO
---

## EXO 16:34

The manna ceased but the law lasted forever. Man cannot live forever by eating bread or manna but man will have everlasting life if he abides by the word of God.

both manna and the commandments were given by God yet one was more important than the other.

The commandments lasted generations but the manna didn't even though both were provided by God. it goes to show that the spiritual is greater than the natural. this was what made the difference between Moses and Joshua vs the Israelites.

Related verses: Exodus 16:33-34, Deuteronomy 8:3, Matthew 4:4, Romans 8:6-8. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3453783682023416530)


## EXO 16:24

Normally the manna would become wormy if left till the next day but on the instructions of God given by Moses when the leaders of the congregation went to him. it didn't rot. It pays to listen to instructions form the leader God has put in charge of you.

I must be a doer and obey instructions

Related verses: Exodus 16:24. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3261730675783099369)


## EXO 16:3

doubt + fear = anger

Related verses: Exodus 16:3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3261724331780858835)


## EXO 16:12

I used to feel pity on the Israelites but then I realised I could easily have done the same. Imagine being in slavery but have food to eat but then bring rescued and realising you're subjected to the harsh weather that the wilderness provides, heat, thirst, long journey, tiredness and little or no food.

What I learn is to trust God and not murmur. Instead think about what God has done for me in the past and trust in his wisdom

Related verses: Exodus 16:12. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3261002307185926411)


## EXO 16:27

Disobedience on the part of Israel. It seems like they are only concerned about food. It's good God didn't take them to the promised land straight away. They would spoil it as they will do later.

- They failed God's test miserably
- what else do they need. A day of rest and some still went out after food. Isn't it better they were not toiling hard under Pharaoh

Related verses: Sh'mot (Exo) 16:27. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2451774868455940587)


## EXO 16:27

Disobedience on the part of Israel. It seems like they are only concerned about food. It's good God didn't take them to the promised land straight away. They would spoil it as they will do later.

- They failed God's test miserably
- what else do they need. A day of rest and some still went out after food. Isn't it better they were not toiling hard under Pharaoh

Related verses: Sh'mot (Exo) 16:27. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2450664379428627388)


## EXO 16:19

Just like the Passover lamb that was to be burnt so that none us left till morning so is the manna from heaven 

[Bread - Manna and Meat - Passover lamb]

Jesus the Passover lamb to rescue us from death and the Manna to satisfy our hunger, the tick that brought forth water to satisfy our thirst

Related verses: Sh'mot (Exo) 16:19. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2450662083240125369)


## EXO 16:12

Is it about meat and bread. Looks like they valued food over the worker of miracles. More than blessings.

- They are short-sighted

Just like Esau who valued a pot of stew over his birthright.

- Would we rather chose the blesser or the blessing?

Isn't it what God promised them in the first place, a feast in the desert. Who else other than God would do something unimaginable. A feast in the wilderness.

Impatience, selfishness and unbelief is killing the gig here. 

God has shown himself to be faithful

Related verses: Sh'mot (Exo) 16:12. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2450654066331345822)


## EXO 16:5

Another test of Israel's unfaithfulness

Related verses: Sh'mot (Exo) 16:5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2450645624623457172)


## EXO 16:5

Miracle of multiplication here

Related verses: Sh'mot (Exo) 16:5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2450644159595013004)

