
---
title: "EXO 17"
date: 2019-09-27 23:12:08 +00:00
book: EXO
draft: false
---

## EXO 17:11

Moses raising up his hands was a sign of appeal to God for help and enablement (NASB study Bible). The outcome of the battle was spiritually decided. If Amalek knew this, they would just focus on killing Moses rather than fighting any battle.

As long as Moses hands were lifted up, the battle was won. As long as my hands are lifted up to God for help, he will help and save me because my hands is short and can become fatigued but his hands is not short that it cannot save neither can God be fatigued

**Related verses**: Exodus 17:11. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3262916251953651805)


## EXO 17:11

The strength of a spiritual organisation is dependent on the strength of the leader. the leader needs reliable helpers to make sure every battle is won. 


Everyone had their part to play so don't be discouraged or jealous of position instead work well in the minor position you've been put and God will promote you 

For me personally, I must obey and start making sure I complete every task given to me. I must show faithfulness in the little things I've been given by meditating on it so that it is part of my desires.

**Related verses**: Exodus 17:11. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3261892347378262986)


## EXO 17:7

It is evil and lack of faith to test God's patience after seeing his miracle work.

I must avoid that at all cost after seeing God's working in my life and after he has promised not to leave or forsake me

**Related verses**: Exodus 17:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3261889935393416097)


## EXO 17:11

The strength of man cannot be relied upon. 

- The arm of Moses grew heavy and he needed support.

- winning the battle against Amalek wasn't because of the men fighting, it was because of how long Moses could lift up his hands on the hill and persevere until victory is won (at 80 years of age)

-

**Related verses**: Exodus 17:11-12. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2452810778924540639)

