
---
title: "EXO 20"
date: 2019-09-27 12:30:22 +00:00
book: EXO
draft: false
---

## EXO 20:7

Using the name of God in vain is to perform any act or sat any thing that tarnishes, diminishes or Dishonored the characters and attributes of God

**Related verses**: Exodus 20:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3262593241791062953)


## EXO 20:6

The proof that I love Jesus is obeying is commandments. The effect of that is his presence because Jesus said he and his father will come to live with me. 

I already have the Holy spirit living in me but for Jesus and God to come as well that's another level.

Jesus already promised he's with me through the ages. I prepare God a secret place through obedience to his words.

Obeying Jesus words confers upon me divine wisdom because of his saying in Matthew 7:24 of the two house builders and their foundation.

**Related verses**: Exodus 20:6, Psalms 91:1, Matthew 7:24, John 14:15, John 14:23. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3239330756640367462)


## EXO 20:13

Killing the life you can't create. God is the author of life and when we take away someone's life, we are going against God's authority. That includes abortion or any sort of taking away life. There is actually a curse for those who takes away life without God's permission. 

Even God himself did not unnecessarily take away anyone's life then how much more us.

Most of these laws are contrary to the laws of the other nations who sacrificed their sons in fire to gods

An example is Cain who was cursed to be a vagabond because he shed innocent blood. May the blood of Jesus Christ wash us away from blood-guiltiness.

**Related verses**: Sh'mot (Exo) 20:13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2455822013177782971)


## EXO 20:12

Commandment with a promise. May God help us all. I remember those days when I didn't really honor my parents which I now regret but I thank God he opened my eyes soon enough to realize my mistake.

The reward of honoring our earthly parent is long life. I don't know how that works but I know the blessings of a parent are vital.

Blessings aren't only from parents, it should be something we should aim to get from higher God-given authorities


- Noah was blessed by God and lived up to 950 years
- Adam was blessed by God, he lived to be 930 years
- Isaac by Abraham, lived to be 180
- Abraham by Melchizedek and God, lived to be 175
- Jacob by Abraham, God. Lived to be 147
- Joseph by Jacob. Lived to be 110

**Related verses**: Sh'mot (Exo) 20:12. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2455818444739437241)


## EXO 20:11

Isn't it good that God's law has given us rest. Otherwise we will be working 7 days a week. Sone people do, but I shall not be a slave to work.

God is so great. I'm sure the Israelites in Egypt never observed Sabbath. Subjected to 7 days a week forced labour and oppression under harsh conditions. There was little or no human right in Egypt and now God is giving them freedom to rest on the 7th day.

Not even slaves were to do any work on the Sabbath, not even animals lol. 

This only indicates that God is not an author of burden, oppression but he wants holiness and rest for us all. 

	?Come unto Me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest" - Matthew 11:28

Wasn't it just what God was doing in Egypt, to give the Israelites rest in a land flowing with milk and honey

Was God tired when he rested on the 7th day, I think not. As a great and mighty leader, he sets a good example for us all which has been a model of most, if not all nations presently.

**Related verses**: Sh'mot (Exo) 20:8-11. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2455809771665351335)


## EXO 20:7

What we can't even do to our parents or teachers, we do it to God. May he have mercy on us. Those days, who dare say that to the teacher when you know you will end up in a hot pot of pepper soup.

The name of God 
- is a strong tower, the righteous runs to it and are saved - Proverbs 18:10
- destroys the enemies - Psalms 118:10
- provides help - Psalms 124:8
- Is excellent - Psalms 148:13
- Brings healing - James 5:14

There is punishment for misusing the name of God especially in curses and so on. May God help us

**Related verses**: Sh'mot (Exo) 20:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2455802727600218785)


## EXO 20:6

Love + Obedience = grace * 1000
Hate = punishment * 4

Which would you choose?

May God help us to love and obey him even though sometimes it doesn't look easy and sensible. To be honest, we have to question if God only does the possible.

But he does the impossible because he is God. Using the foolish to confound the wise, the blind to lead the seeing, the lame to lead the able because he is God himself

**Related verses**: Sh'mot (Exo) 20:6. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2455796202294993553)


## EXO 20:5

Jealousy is cruel especially if it is experienced in the hands of God. God makes it plain, I am jealous. No cutting corners or sweet talks.

By the way God is not jealous of us but for us because serving lifeless idols is useless as it is a waste of time, energy, resources. 

May we not suffer generational punishment but rather enjoy God's unfailing love that extends to the 1000th generation.

Sins of parents who hate God extends to the 3rd and 4th generation but his love extends to 1000th generation of those who love him

**Related verses**: Sh'mot (Exo) 20:5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2455790954088227454)


## EXO 20:4

I see this as disrespect in the sight of God and a great downgrade of man's intellect.

God made man in his image, then man makes a lifeless image of himself and animals and says this is my god.

Imagine going to visit the president of your country and taking along with you the portrait of a frog and telling the president i have a gift for you and presenting that portrait to him. He definitely would be angry at you. Why do the same with God?

God wants us to see that these things that have eyes but cannot see, ears but cannot hear, mouth but can't speak and do on are useless and vain and merely going after them is useless except in the case where these idols have been possessed by demonic entities in which case they bring oppression, depression, manipulation, deception, possession and finally eternal damnation.

May God help us to see right from wrong and open our mind, heart, brain and what needs to be opened. May God grant us divine wisdom, knowledge and understanding

**Related verses**: Sh'mot (Exo) 20:4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2455787260768674422)


## EXO 20:3

Speaks of disloyalty because it soon become a false balance. Trying to please God and another idol whereas these idols and false God are instituted by diabolical entities.

How can good and bad. Light and darkness mix together, impossible.

It is very obvious that we end up going after strange gods if our heart is not with God. The other gods flatter us with lusts of the eyes, flesh and the pride of life. A bait into unrealistic fantasies and when we fall, what seemed like a mansion in paradise soon become a jail in a jungle.

The way of life is not easy and it's narrow. The path to death is wide and easy and many fall into it.

God knew that we as natural men will choose the easy and nice pleasurable way but it only leads to destruction.

Apart from this God is jealous for us and he can't take it when our heart is turned from him.

We humans are in some way like God. When we love something or someone, we tend to guide and guard it carefully. 

God wants the heart of every individual. If the heart can be captured, the rest is easy. 

May God help us to have no other God before him

**Related verses**: Sh'mot (Exo) 20:3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2455781351891919459)


## EXO 20:6

You will find grace in God's sight when you love and obey him

**Related verses**: Sh'mot (Exo) 20:6. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2454223352446575345)

