
---
title: "EXO 23"
date: 2016-09-24 10:55:58 +00:00
book: EXO
draft: false
---

## EXO 23:29

God is also considerate of nature irrespective of his spiritual capabilities. Strategic planning is involved here as driving out the Canaanites, Hittites, Jebusites, Hivites, Amorites etc would cause the multiplication of wild animals.

These group of people are also needed to play their role so that the Israelites would in turn enjoy the fruit of their (not Israeli's) labour.

**Related verses**: Sh'mot (Exo) 23:29. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2466741981117407707)


## EXO 23:25

He and I signifying there are two entities involved in this speech. It could never have been Moses speaking here because Moses cannot take sickness away from his people. 

Only God can. The Angel of the Lord and the Lord here are two divine personalities.

**Related verses**: Sh'mot (Exo) 23:25. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2466735485986005441)


## EXO 23:11

This plan might well be the reason for bush fallowing in agriculture where the soil regains its fertility after being left alone.  This law also ensures that the poor can have something to eat as well as wild animals. It seems God never intended us to forget about the animals as they are a part of the ecosystem.

This is also useful in helping prepare for the future, storage and hard work. If you don't plan for 6 years, hunger will kill you and you will feed like the poor.

It is also a way to remember the Sabbath and to keep them. The sabbath is integrated into the core systems of the Israelites to remind them that God is a God of rest and not of bondage and slavery

**Related verses**: Sh'mot (Exo) 23:11. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2463718208831218622)


## EXO 23:7

Hmm, to keep away from fraud, scamming, and all sorts of evil device used in acquiring things that's not yours. We should not also be partaker of them that shed innocent blood whether we actively did it or were among false testimonies leading to it

Perhaps the Pharisees thought if they could instigate sinners to kill Jesus, they will be free. After all, they themselves did not physically kill Jesus as it is said "thou shall not kill"

But they forgot that uprooting the root kills the plant and not cutting off every branches.

The problem should be dealt with from within, from the heart. Jealousy, envy, anger, offence, hatred then murder should be dealt with. The physical act doesn't mean anything as long as the thought has been incubated in your heart. All that is left is to just manifest it outwardly


When you take a bribe, your mind, emotion and thinking switches instantly in favour of the giver and soon, ungodly judgement is made which would wreck havoc. This could bring God's judgement on the action or community if the leader there himself cannot refuse bribes.

May our eyes and minds not be blinded in Jesus name

**Related verses**: Sh'mot (Exo) 23:7-8. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2463712973240918959)


## EXO 23:5

This even involves caring for animals and having a watchful eye for what is not just yours but your neighbour. Be your neighbour's keeper and everyone will be safe and happy.

It sounds really nice and good but it's not an easy thing to keep especially because of our selfishness

**Related verses**: Sh'mot (Exo) 23:5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2463708627195388839)


## EXO 23:1

Because a false witness will not go unpunished and neither will a liar escape - proverbs 19:5

**Related verses**: Sh'mot (Exo) 23:1. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2462984815046812251)

