
---
title: "PRO 3"
date: 2020-06-25 01:50:01+00:00
book: PRO
draft: false
---

## PRO 3:4

I find favour in the sight of God and man because of the three qualities: mercy, kindness and truth.

mercy and truth because God desires both and kindness in judgement will make me show compassion. God is full of compassion

**Related verses**: Proverbs 3:4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3459409939369026321)


## PRO 3:1

backsliding starts from the heart and that is why I must keep my heart with all diligence. I won't forget the teachings of wisdom when I have rehearsed it continually until it becomes part of me

**Related verses**: Proverbs 3:1. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3459407982449386237)


## PRO 3:16

Silver was not valuable in the days of Solomon. there was abundant wealth in his kingdom and divine wisdom was the initiator of these blessings.

**Related verses**: 2 Chronicles 9:20, Proverbs 3:16. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3457301330241773582)


## PRO 3:1

Things you do not forget are things you've constantly rehearsed and meditated until they become part of you.

You also don't forget things that have reached your heart and what you love

**Related verses**: Proverbs 3:1. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2688310005736399305)


## PRO 3:13

You find Godly wisdom (by seeking it) and you gain understanding and insight (by learning [from God's word and life experiences])

**Related verses**: PROVERBS 3:13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2687630817652105733)


## PRO 3:12

You receive correction because you are loved and someone delights in you. God as your father does the same and even more

**Related verses**: PROVERBS 3:12. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2687629015829438973)


## PRO 3:3

Divine wisdom 
- makes you Wealthy
- famous
- builds you a house
- honoured

Solomon even though very wise, his wisdom was turned to foolishness because he disobeyed God in his latter days. He forfeited long life.

He disobeyed the laws of Deuteronomy 17:16-20 which warned kings not to multiply horses, increase silver and gold, multiply wives. The warning was that having many wives would turn his heart away from God.

I believe he became proud because of his fame and stopped reading and acting on the word of God given to the kings to read, learn and observe.

We are made to know according to Deuteronomy 17:19-20 that learning and observing the word of God will make us humble. Meaning no one is above learning at the school of the word of God.

The book of Proverbs also warned us not to give our strength to women because they destroy kings (Proverbs 3:1-3). Solomon the wisest man before Jesus was destroyed, Samson the strongest man portrayed in the bible was destroyed.

If the strongest and the wisest were destroyed, then we must be on guard.

At the end of it all. The wisdom, knowledge, understanding, fame, wealth, women and glory. All without God was vanity and vexation of spirit

**Related verses**: Deuteronomy 17:19-20, 1 Kings 10:28, 1 Kings 11:1-6, Proverbs 3:1-3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2652894640659489042)

