
---
title: "1SA 17"
date: 2020-04-02 07:24:43 +00:00
book: 1SA
draft: false
---

## 1SA 17:37

this should be my confession. if God has saved me many times from death, he will surely rescue me whenever I am in trouble

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 17:37. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3398697244265538431)


## 1SA 17:18

David had been anointed as king for war but was still feeding the sheep and delivering cheese. he was still an errand boy until the Holy Spirit moved his father to send him on delivery. this marked a milestone for his future.

At the right time God will elevate me. I just need to remain faithful to the things I've been asked to do

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 17:18. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3398692530446656323)


## 1SA 17:33

Counter the words of anyone who tells you you cannot do something because with God all things are possible

**Related verses**: 1 SAMUEL 17:33. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2631847791748178142)


## 1SA 17:44

David and Goliath 
- Goliath used shields, helmet and a javelin while David used a sling and a shepherd staff
- Goliath used intimidation and fear to paralyse his enemies while David used faith in God to counter it
- Goliath was a man of war from his youth (experienced fighter) while David was just a youth shepherd.
- Goliath cursed David by his gods but David reversed the curse by deploying the NAME OF THE LORD
- Goliath relied on the arm of flesh - "I WILL GIVE YOUR FLESH ... " while David relied on God - "THE LORD WILL HAND YOU OVER"
- Goliath came to fight a youth with his armour bearer but David came to fight a giant in the name of the Lord

**Related verses**: 1 SAMUEL 17:41-47. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2631579612882920234)


## 1SA 17:46

The name of God is powerful, it pulls down strong towers. 

Confidence and faith (in God) is all that counts

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 17:45-46. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2270970203087823424)


## 1SA 17:44

Never overlook a little thing, it might be the cause of your downfall, don't be too overconfident as Goliath was or you will end up perishing.

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 17:42-44. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2270968660036936252)


## 1SA 17:39

I'm wondering why will David choose just a sling and 5 stones to fight against a Giant with heavy Shields and spear who has been a man of war from his youth. And yet David used just a stone to kill the giant. 

I think David knew it wasn't a war of who was the most experienced but of whose God was mighty. 

God converted a crude tool to a lethal weapon in the hand of an inexperienced warrior. 

David knew this (faith) that he served a powerful God., that's why he chose stones. 

I believe even if he took a feather to the battle ground he would have won. Although he chose a stone and supplemented it with the mighty God.

Conclusion: it doesn't matter how powerful the enemy is, if you have God by your side, you become victorious

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 17:39-40. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2270965280719757882)

