
---
title: "1SA 20"
date: 2020-04-04 08:02:14 +00:00
book: 1SA
draft: false
---

## 1SA 20:31

God had already said through Samuel that Saul's throne would not be established but Saul is still forcing it by his own strength and might but God's words would never be thwarted

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 20:31. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3400165675758248594)


## 1SA 20:22

The arrow signifies Saul's onslaught against David. if it's beyond him then it means Saul really intrds to kill David as we will see later on

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 20:22. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3400163873088332415)


## 1SA 20:17

A perfect example of friendship

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 20:17. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3400162841448931957)


## 1SA 20:13

Jonathan is an example of a faithful friend. even though he knew that David had been anointed as long and that he won't be the next King. he neither was jealous nor planned to kill David. His friendship with David remained intact and unchanged by circumstances and he helped to save David's life on several occasions also acting as an insider with information from the palace.

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 20:13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3400162041897149034)


## 1SA 20:42

David and Jonathan's friendship was one that involved God. That was why it was more strengthened because they were both God fearing thus equally yoked in friendship terms and was long lasting ... Till the death. 

Although they might have their difference in attitude but their difference wasn't one that could corrupt David as the bible says in 1 Corinthians 15:33 - Do not be misled: "Bad company corrupts good character."

Always seek to be around friends of good character because it is infectious and will ultimately determine who you become.

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 20:42. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2278208076673442419)


## 1SA 20:31

Saul has made numerous attempt to terminate David's life. Here is the fest time to end it once and for all.

I'm sure Saul round be madly enraged in his bed the first day of the new Moon festival when David wasn't present.

He was forced to ask on the second day and when Jonathan told him he allowed David to do to his hometown, Saul couldn't take it any longer and said, Jonathan's throne would not be established as long as David was alive. Which was true in some sense, 

But Jonathan valued true friendship over the throne.
Even in the face of commotion and death threats, Jonathan was loyal to the end

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 20:30-31. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2277491072660398624)


## 1SA 20:20

Jonathan said he would shoot three arrows towards the Rock Ezel and would send a boy to fetch it. If he tells the boy that the arrows are on the other side of the boy, then David can return home else if the arrows are beyond the boy, then David must run away.

My interpretation.
The Rock is David
The arrows are Saul's death threats

Case 1: if the arrow is on the other side of the boy, means if the attack is not against David, if Saul is not planning to kill David then David can return home.

Case 2: if the arrow is. beyond the boy, it means that what Saul is planning is beyond what David can handle so he should flee for his life.

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 20:20-22. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2277486376608588295)


## 1SA 20:15

Jonathan knew the Lord was with David. He didn't bother to disputes over the throne of his father. He rather valued true friendship over the throne and he knew David was Saul's enemy.. He also knew God will fight against David's enemies later

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 20:14-15. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2277476392789336546)

