
---
title: "1SA 22"
date: 2020-04-06 05:45:35 +00:00
book: 1SA
draft: false
---

## 1SA 22:22

David accepted blame even for his indirect actions.  he didn't put the blame on Doeg or Saul

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 22:22. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3401546449099153836)


## 1SA 22:19

What Saul didn't do to the Amalejites, he did to the city of the priests of God at Nob even though they were all innocent. Saul has now gone very far

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 22:19. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3401545884118016417)


## 1SA 22:15

it wasn't the first time David enquired of the Lord. he was used to enquiring from God.

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 22:15. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3401544269344530821)


## 1SA 22:5

David listened to Had the prophet's instruction

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 22:5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3401540492449276268)


## 1SA 22:8

Accusations and false allegations motivated by fear and hatred for David

**Related verses**: 1 SAMUEL 22:8. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2635501977018818855)


## 1SA 22:11

Ahitub son of Zadok and Ahimelech (father of Abiathar)

**Related verses**: 1 SAMUEL 22:11. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2634829497119794171)


## 1SA 22:14

About David
- faithful
- trustworthy 
- Skilful musician 
- warrior 
- anointed king
- handsome 
- friendly
- great leader
- captain of Saul's guard
- Saul's confidant
- king's Son-in-law

**Related verses**: 1 SAMUEL 22:14. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2634822266567517163)


## 1SA 22:13

Now I understand why. Because of Doeg's report. But Saul is deceived and twisting the truth

Saul had 600 men in Gibeah and since David had run to the cave of Adullam where he got 400 men, a priest and a prophet and since David had now returned to Judah, it was logical to think David had gathered himself people, priest and prophet which is required for a King and had returned in order to fight Saul

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 22:13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2634818454305891296)


## 1SA 22:1

David had gain valuable leadership experience in the house of Saul. His life was now in danger and he had been put in charge of another (approximately 400) men. At least we know that David's brothers (Eliab, Abinadab, Shammah, Nethanel, Raddai and Orem) came to meet him as well as or most likely (Joab, Abishai and Asahel) 

Now he had the support of what a King would have, a runaway priest named Abiathar/Ahimelech (escaped when Saul killed members of his household for helping David when he fled from Saul), the prophet Gad and other men who were debtors, sorrowful or in a bad situation

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 22:1-2, 1 Chronicles 12:8-18. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2634813251003343828)


## 1SA 22:17

Saul falsely accusing the priests of God at Nob and ultimately killed 86 of them and wipeout the city of the priests (Nob)

This was also to fulfil God's prophecy on Eli's household spoken in 1 Samuel 2:31

**Related verses**: 1 SAMUEL 22:17. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2634805069526852559)


## 1SA 22:23

David had been on the run and up to this point, prior to this david had left 5  different places and since Doeg had explained how he saw David at Nob asking for provisions, sword and enquiry from God, Saul orders the killing all the priests at Nob except for Abiathar who escaped to David.

David instantly apologised for all the damage he has caused due to his lie. Although in the face of persecution running away from Saul, this might have had a great impact on him.

But he assured Abiathar that his 
Life is safe with him. He was confident because he knew that God was his protector that's why he had been live all this while.

How does it feel like for David being the King of Israel and yet running away from the ex-King who still rules in the Land. 

Wow Patience on the side of David and how many years did he wait before he finally sat on his throne.

It must be really frustrating when you are the rightful owner of something and you can't claim it as much as you want it but have to be patient and do it the lawful way.

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 22:23. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2279704867105399786)


## 1SA 22:10

It seems like Doeg the Edomite was ok until Saul asked and sweet talked his officials trickishly. Doeg said what he saw and maybe Doeg would have been good until he killed all the priests of God (family of Ahimelek)

Saul saw the other side of the story as a conspiracy against him whereas David had lied to Ahimelek.

That lie cost the life of a lot of Souls at Nob. Saul took it far by killing all the priests of God and their families and properties except for Abiathar who escaped to David

Ahimelek replied out of pure innocence and this should remind us that lying can destroy a lot of life.

Not sure what would have been the case if David had said the truth to Ahimelek.

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 22:9-10. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2279690371037127614)


## 1SA 22:3

Inspite of all David's problem, his father's families and about 400 men were with Him and he was their commander at the cave of Adullam.

Although the youngest and on the run, he took his parents to Moab. This would be a good choice because David was of Moab - Israel descent.

His grandmother was Ruth a Moabitess who Married Boaz the Israelite.

David had no option but to take his parents to live in their land of origin till the persecution was over. It is sensible because his parents were old and can't keep up with running to and fro.

-------
He also had God in mind. The fact that he was persecuted didn't make him say. Why is this happening to me if there is a God and then decide there is no God or make rash comments. That would have been the end of David.

A lot of times we face a lot of challenges and forget God has a purpose to make is humble, strong, wise and fit for his work. He wants to purify is as pure gold is brought out of the furnace.

Read somewhere : Saul is a type of Satan who wants to kill the seed of the woman. That is true because without the line of David, the plan of salvation would have been altered. 

That is why God saw him through all his problems. Begin to trust God as long as you are not dead, God has a plan for you and will see you through.


**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 22:2-3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2278977019826659678)


## 1SA 22:2

Even when David was on the run, he was still accommodating inspite if the dangers surrounding him, taking about 409 men and becoming commander of them. 

He is a good leader.
Prior to this, David has been fleeing from

- Saul 
- then to Naioth in Ramah
- next Nob city of the priest 
- Achish King of Gath
- Cave of Adullam

David has constantly been on the run, Although he was King, he didn't dare think about going to attack Saul. Inspite of this God spares his life .

All these problems and experiences was to prepare David for when he would become Kng.

No great person would not experience difficulties in life 

David reminds me of Jesus  in Luke 4:18 Isaiah 61:1,  Matthew 12:18 (Preach, heal , deliver, set free)

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 22:2. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2278969837232054612)

