
---
title: "1SA 23"
date: 2020-04-06 23:14:29 +00:00
book: 1SA
draft: false
---

## 1SA 23:17

What a friend. God please give me the mindset of Jonathan. A faithful friend

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 23:17. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3402074378988151181)


## 1SA 23:14

God was David's protector. he did not allow his enemy to catch him.

God deliver me from my enemies

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 23:14. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3402073333541101954)


## 1SA 23:28

Saul was willing to take all or most of his armies in pursuit of a man you her than him to kill him but he left God's sheep vulnerable and unprotected against Philistines.


Saul was afraid of David and considering the fact that he now knows David will succeed him as King and the future of his son as King is in jeopardy.

To be honest, it is a disgrace to be in the office of the King and  you and many people know you have been rejected.

**Related verses**: 1 SAMUEL 23:28. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2636231824443695204)


## 1SA 23:13

David's men had now increased from 400 to 600

**Related verses**: 1 SAMUEL 23:13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2635511216172949829)


## 1SA 23:2

David was willing to help his people from the Philistines plundering but he first asked from God. God gave him a go-ahead but his men discouraged him because they were afraid but David enquirer from God again and God gave him another go-ahead and victory was achieved.

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 23:2, 1 Samuel 23:4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2634832523310130174)


## 1SA 23:27

Wow it is truly said. If God is with you who can be against you.

Another of Saul's evil attempt has failed again. Why is Saul bent of terminating the Lord's anointed life. In the end David lived to see Saul died.


It's painful that Jonathan died too

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 23:25-27. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2281411484523946273)


## 1SA 23:15

Jonathan came to visit and comfort David in the desert of Ziph and them 

Assuring him not to be afraid 
That David would become king and he would be second to David

Nine of them had disputes about which throne it was meant to be. Jonathan simply accepted his fate and God's plan and flowed with it.

Aim to have friendship where worldly things cannot separate like right to ownership, money, power etc.  

A good and long lasting friendship must also be God cantered for God to bless it.

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 23:15-16. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2280450699886846794)


## 1SA 23:6

Abiathar when fleeing from Saul's annihilation of the priestly town of Nob remembered to take the ephod which was used to inquire from God. This was very useful when David wanted to go and save the town of Kekiah

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 23:6. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2280424614134539041)


## 1SA 23:1

Trust in God
Put others first
Self sacrifice
God first



When the philistines attacked the city of Keilah, David had a heart and feeling for the people and was willing to help them defend the city inspite of the constant threat to his life. He was a man of sacrifice and was willing to go and help them (he knew nothing would happen to him except God allows it. So he was confident of victory)

In
One of the threat to his life, his separation from friends and fail and change of circumstances (from around the kingdom to unfavourable places like deserts, forests etc. But he was able to cope since he was once a shepherd in the wilderness (see 1 Samuel 17:28)

Before taking any action, he inquired from God and God gave him a go ahead but doubts crept in as he was being discouraged by his men of war saying they are afraid in Judah and he wants to attack the philistine forces

By natural human thinking, it was illogical to go attack the Philistines when he himself was still on the run from someone else. He re-enquired from God and God ensured victory.

It is always good to put God in mind and as the first resort before making any move. God help me because sometimes when I've tried everything and it doesn't work out then I run to God. Lord have mercy.

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 23:1-5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2280418556200608509)

