
---
title: "1SA 25"
date: 2020-04-09 18:23:09 +00:00
book: 1SA
draft: false
---

## 1SA 25:31

Abigail was indeed sent by God. she knew David will become King soon and she spoke sensibly. preventing David from shedding blood without cause and she said HE SHOULD REMEMBER HER

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 25:31. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3404102069018944268)


## 1SA 25:17

Ready to be destroyed because of foolishness, wickedness and not listening to instructions

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 25:17. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3404090847645131410)


## 1SA 25:15

David was a shepherd. he had the skills and definitely also protect other people's sheep

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 25:15. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3403784104335630848)


## 1SA 25:10

Naval insulted David by implying he is a runaway slave even though David and his men had been watching over his sheep. at least he should not have said anything and Nabal must have known that David was a potential king.

The day of joy in sheep shearing almost turned to a day of woe and mourning

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 25:10. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3403783253202297338)


## 1SA 25:3

Compare the wife who is intelligent and beautiful to the husband who is harsh and evil in his dealing

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 25:3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3403780926177272297)


## 1SA 25:22

Death and life are in the power of the tongue.

The words we speak carry powers that can either build up or destroy. Examples.

- Rebecca - Said the curse on Jacob be on her, she also wished she had died in Genesis 28 and died 7 chapters later 

- Peter rained curses on himself when denying Jesus 3 times but Jesus after his resurrection made him renounce his statement when he asked Peter if he loved him thrice.

- Saul cursed himself and his son when he demanded a fasting until the Philistines were destroyed in the day of battle in 1 Samuel

- there are many more examples like when David pronounced judgement of death on the offender on himself unknowingly after God sent the prophet Nathan to him who used a parable to explain what evil David had done) after he killed Uriah and married Bathsheba. God had mercy on David. He didn't die but he lost some children (Bathsheba's son, Amnon, Absalom)

In this case of David, David rained curses on his enemies instead of himself. He would have died if he directed it to himself as we will see later that Nabal and Saul died.

Be careful what you say. It is better to say nothing than say destructive words

**Related verses**: 1 SAMUEL 25:22. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2637629903315132794)


## 1SA 25:11

Nabal - stingy, greedy, insultive. He lost his wife and his life

**Related verses**: 1 SAMUEL 25:11-12. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2637618815597011227)


## 1SA 25:1

SAMUEL'S LIFE

- Samuel was born in 1105 BC. 
- He was 35 years older than Saul and 75 years older than David.
- He anointed Saul at the age of 65
- He anointed David at the age of 90
- he died aged 95



- David waited 15 years after being anointed to be King at the age of 15


Timeline
- Samuel's birth - 1105 BC
- Saul's birth - 1080 BC
- Saul anointed to be king - 1050 BC
- David's birth - 1040 BC
- David anointed to succeed Saul - 1025 BC
- Samuel dies - 1014 BC
- Saul's death and David's reign over Judah in Hebron - 1010 BC
- David's reign over Israel and capture of Jerusalem
- David's wars - 997 - 992 BC
- Solomon's birth - 991 BC
- David's census - 980 BC
- David dies - 970 BC

Jonathan is 27 years older than David

**Related verses**: 1 SAMUEL 25:1. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2636967583672951603)


## 1SA 25:10

David had just mourned the death of Saul and somewhere in town, another wealthy man named Nabal was having a festive period. A time to sheer his sheep, a time of produce that would surely bring in more money. 

David heard of Nabal's celebration and sent servants to visit Nabal so they can share in his joy but unfortunately, Nabal rained abuses on David's servant and David became furious.

Perhaps this rich man was proud, he had forgotten David the giant killer who saved Israel from the philistines and gave peace to the land. He probably also knew David was an anointed King 

If Nabal was stingy. Al least he could have done that in a better way than insult the soon to be King. David's intentions were good, even sending blessings to the rich man s home

David became furious and spoke in anger. 

"May God deal with David, be it ever so severely, if by morning I leave alive one male of all who belong to him!?

Abigail, Nabal's wife on the other hand was intelligent, had good judgement and beautiful. When she was told what Nabal had done, she hosted to prevent the calamity proclaimed on Nabal's household.

This woman was wise and knew what to do. She recognised who David was in the sense that he was a King and treated him the normal way Nabal should have done.

I'm stunned by Abigail's reply.

First she bowed down to David as a sign of respect, then begged(inter-seeded for Nabal)  then

1. Prayed for David
2. Through her prayer, it was obvious somehow that she knew David will be King, and she knew all about God's promises to David.

But I wonder that Nabal should be aware of this too but unfortunately for him he chose to treat David with disdain and in the end he lost his life, his wife and whatever thing he could lose.

Nabal finally died but Nabal must be very wicked and  stingy. He was shocked because Abigail made the right choice.

Lessons
1. Be cheerful to give - (All these wouldn't have happened if Nabal had given in the first place).
2. If you can't give, at lest have soothing words
3. Make things right as soon as possible otherwise disaster can come upon you
4. Don't be rash in speaking (Nabal didn't think twice, he just blasted David's servants. David was also rash in speaking and taking someone's life)
5. Always listen to advice (Even though David had authority, he still listened to Abigail's advice)

**Related verses**: 1 Samuel 25:10. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2301593457456309168)

