
---
title: "1SA 3"
date: 2020-03-25 08:06:49+00:00
draft: false
book: 1SA
---

## 1SA 3:10

the Lord actually came and stood even though Samuel did nit see anybody. where the voice of God is, his presence is also there.

Related verses: 1 Samuel 3:10. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3392920223887385350)


## 1SA 3:18

Not even a sign of remorse or repentance. Eli was not even bothered anymore. "I am an old man. I will die soon. the children should face their consequences, afterall when I am gone, there will be nothing to worry about".

This kind of ideology is dangerous when we look at self and do not consider the younger generations coming after. Even though it was Eli sons who offended and pleaded guilty the most, they still brought judgement on the rest of the family.

Related verses: 1 SAMUEL 3:18. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2614634177526227170)


## 1SA 3:14

Their sin was so great they it couldn't even be atoned for. Reminds me of when Jesus was telling the pharisees that whoever blasphemes the Holy spirit would not be forgiven neither in this world or the hereafter.

Eli's sons Hophni and Phinehas must have blasphemed the Holy spirit for this to have happened. No respect that the Holy Spirit who was in the Holy of Holies (Most Holy place) in the tabernacle is even near.

Related verses: 1 SAMUEL 3:14. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2614632185600925890)


## 1SA 3:13

When we dishonor and blaspheme God, we bring a curse on ourselves. God sent a prophet to warn Eli about his sons but it seems they never heeded instructions. Perhaps Eli should have relieved them of their priestly position and installed another one but he didn't do it.

Now judgement was about to fall. Before judgement, God even sent a prophet to warn them through Eli but we see there was no repentance. They had gone too far into sin that God finally decided to destroy them

Related verses: 1 SAMUEL 3:13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2614630189573595315)


## 1SA 3:7

Everyone needs to personally experience God for ourselves. We cannot rely on anyone to personally experience him for us. Samuel has now for the first time seen a vision and was soon to being called into the prophetic ministry after serving as a priest under the guidance of Eli

Related verses: 1 SAMUEL 3:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2614586936962835291)


## 1SA 3:5

The vision was so real to Samuel that he thought Eli called him.

Related verses: 1 SAMUEL 3:5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2614583987838640972)

