
---
title: "1SA 5"
date: 2020-03-26 08:27:52 +00:00
draft: false
book: 1SA
---

## 1SA 5:7

God would not be manipulated to act on my behalf especially when I am living a sinful lifestyle. neither would God share his glory with any other. The ark of God was placed before Dagon to show Dagon's superiority but God struck Dagon and he fell before the ark thus God was showing his superiority.

God also struck the Philistine cities with plagues as he did in Egypt. he first struck their gods then their 5 lords, then the people. At the end, the Philistines had to surrender and shamefully return the ark. Prior to this, they were passing the ark around like a hot potato.

It was a similar situation in Egypt. God struck the Egyptian god's, then pharaoh then his people.

I believe the current Corona virus epidemic happening is a judgement on our evil world and because God's presence is going to be very felt really well soon in the countries where the virus has the most impact. e.g. China, Italy, Spain etc.

Related verses: 1 Samuel 5:2-4, 1 Samuel 5:6-7, 1 Samuel 5:10. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3393655593809732342)


## 1SA 5:6

they were under judgement. God still fought for his people without needing their help

Related verses: 1 Samuel 5:6. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3393646816398140059)


## 1SA 5:4

The ark of God was placed beside Dagon to show Dagon's exaltation over the ark of God but God would have none of it.

Dagon fell and his hand was cut off to show that Dagon had no power to do anything and his head also to show he was no head and ruler over anything. He possessed no power over the god of Israel. He fell in homage to the god of Israel

The hand of the Lord was heavy on the land, their gods and their rulers because our God is a living God

Related verses: 1 SAMUEL 5:4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2617397447764992913)


## 1SA 5:1

Title: Judgement on the Philistine and its god

The Philistines made a mistake of putting the ark of God beside Dagon, their principal idol and was punished for that. It brought death, confusion and sickness.

Lesson
- the fact that God is not helping his people because they refuse to repent doesn't mean he won't fight for them
- I must be careful not to associate an idol with God so that I don't get punished for it
- only God is sovereign

Related verses: 1 SAMUEL 5:1. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2617388286096434045)


## 1SA 5:10

The hand of God was very heavy on the principal cities where the ark was brought. It caused death, devastation, tumors and great panic. The Ekronites knew that their fate would be worse if the ark landed in their territory so they rejected it and cried out.

Related verses: 1 Samuel 5:10. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2617381800821646183)


## 1SA 5:7

Where the presence of God is, other gods bow down. The war was against gods. God fought against the principal gods of Egypt and now Dagon the principal gods of the Philistine city of Ashdod.

This affected the people also since what they trusted in has destroyed.

Related verses: 1 SAMUEL 5:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2617379340610691933)


## 1SA 5:3

If the Philistines really knew the power of the Lord of Host, they wouldn't have dared to bring his ark, the sign of God's presence into the house of their idol. But it was done so that God would show that he had no equal.

What surprises me most is that there is no mention of the enemies who carried the ark to the house of Dagon dying whereas when David first tried to carry the ark, a man who tried to prevent it from falling died instantly.

Maybe ignorance of the Philistines is pardoned or God overlooked it because he was to show his glory

The God of Israel has no equals. Even Dagon bowed before the ark and finally Dagon was beheaded and his hands cut off for even being in the presence of God.

Before the ark was returned, God made sure his presence was known. The priests of Dagon stopped stepping on the threshold of his house since that was were his head and palms fell

Related verses: 1 SAMUEL 5:2-4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2617372143126307663)

