
---
title: "1SA 9"
date: 2020-03-28 10:05:58 +00:00
draft: false
book: 1SA
---

## 1SA 9:19

A Seer(prophet) like Samuel could see what's in the mind of a person through the power of the Holy Spirit

Related verses: 1 Samuel 9:19. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3395154520300053184)


## 1SA 9:27

I don't know why Saul was anointed in secret. David was first anointed in the midst of his brothers. Solomon was anointed in the chambers. Jehu was also anointed by one of the sons of the prophet after being commanded by Elijah and he was anointed in the inner room.

What's the significance of secret anointing? Is it that God doesn't want it to be in public.

At the mouth of two or three witnesses a word is established. God, Samuel and Saul witnessed the kingly anointing on Saul. He was 30 years old though called a young man in his days

Related verses: 1 SAMUEL 9:27, 1 SAMUEL 10:1. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2619519660353905116)


## 1SA 9:7

You don't go before a great person without a gift. Saul didn't even know Samuel. The servant was even giving suggestions to Saul to go see a prophet before returning back home.

If Saul hadn't listened to the servant, he could have forfeited his destiny but there was a divine appointment Saul had to make. God can use anyone of any calibre and status to bring about his plans.

God don't choose Saul because he was tall and handsome or from a rich home. God chose him because he was humble and a servant as well.

You can't be a leader if you have never been a servant. You can't be a man of authority if you've never been under authority. Only rebels usurp authority like Lucifer.

"For I am a man UNDER AUTHORITY, having SOLDIERS UNDER me: and I say to this?man, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to MY SERVANT, Do this, and he doeth?it." - Matthew 8:9

Related verses: 1 SAMUEL 9:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2619505348541407655)

