
---
title: "MRK 15"
date: 2020-01-13 06:32:20 +00:00
book: MRK
draft: false
---

## MRK 15:33

On the sabbath there was no buying and selling and work so Jesus had to die earlier otherwise his body would not be buried and although the death of the crucified usually lasted about 2 to 3 days, Jesus died just six hours after being crucified because he willingly released his spirit. Because there was only three hours left, Jesus was buried before the sabbath started.

There was no time to embalm him and Jews didn?t practice embalming either.

The spices and perfume were just an act to show devotion and love not because they were to be used for embalming 

Two women of which one of them was Mary Magdalene had come to show her appreciation and love when Jesus was reclining at the table. it wasn?t when Jesus died that they came to show love I have learnt that I need to show my love and appreciation while the person I need to honour is still alive and with me

**Related verses**: Mark 15:33-34, Mark 15:38. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3340688824510178087)


## MRK 15:15

I cannot and must not become a crowd pleaser. I will make wrong decisions if I want to please the crowd. Pilate released a murder instead of Jesus just because he wanted to please the crowd.

God should be the only one I live to please because he cares so much about me, he loves me, he died for me just to save me from my sins. He went through a lot of torture and torment just so I can make heaven

**Related verses**: Mark 15:15. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3340665712418742837)


## MRK 15:7

I must be careful about resentment and envy because it will cloud my judgement. It will prevent me from doing the right thing no matter how many scriptures I know.

This is why the Bible warns me to keep my heart with all diligence.

Malice will grow out of envy and resentment and if not treated, will lead to murder

**Related verses**: Mark 15:7, Mark 15:10. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3340661858306351614)

