
---
title: "MRK 6"
date: 2020-12-15 09:42:07 +00:00
book: MRK
draft: false
---

## MRK 6:42

Jesus fed them until they were satisfied. Everyone ate and the disciples had full baskets left for themselves.

When we follow Jesus he provides for our needs. He is our great shepherd so we will not lack any good thing.

**Related verses**: Exodus 5:1, Psalms 23:1, Mark 6:42. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3585033763581321574)


## MRK 6:31

Jesus fed the people and also ensured that the disciples also had food to eat.

Man shall not live by bread ALONE but man still needs blood

**Related verses**: Mark 6:31. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3581396030921106182)


## MRK 6:3

These two brothers of Jesus because converts and authored two books in the Bible.

James because the early church leader and wrote the book of James while Judas wrote the book of Jude

**Related verses**: Mark 6:3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3580728560983990572)


## MRK 6:44

God put divine wisdom in the mind of Solomon and this caused the whole world to seek to hear the wisdom of Solomon. the wisdom Jesus had from God made 6000+ people search for him in the desert and ignore food for 3 days.

Man shall not live by bread alone but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. the whole world was hungry to be fed from the words of Solomon.

God's wisdom compels people to hear us

**Related verses**: 1 Kings 10:24, Mark 6:44. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3456780797469253976)


## MRK 6:2

The wisdom of God would make people reverence you. The wisdom of God made people fear (reverence) Jesus

**Related verses**: 1 Kings 3:28, Mark 6:2. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3450186828065006384)


## MRK 6:3

The answer was simple. It was from God. When I learn to look at the right things, I will be blessed and have more understanding.

Jesus was a carpenter and it was only possible to have performed his miracles through God. They could not believe a carpenter whom they knew came from a poor background could be used by God.

... What is this wisdom that has been given unto him ...
Jesus himself said a man can receive nothing unless it is given to him from above (John 3:27)

Jesus had just gone back to his hometown of Nazareth in Galilee and as was the custom to preach on the Sabbath because that was when public reading of the scriptures was done, he was rejected.

Firstly, It was derogatory in Jewish custom to refer to a man by his mother's name. It could easily man, a child of unknown father.

Secondly, they could not believe someone they grew up knowing who came from a poor background was the anointed one God was going to use. They could not see him as higher than themselves and found it impossible to believe he was the son of God.

Jesus background would have naturally unqualified him as the son of God. Born of a virgin (which is very hard to believe), had poor background, uneducated, lived among gentiles in the hometown of Nazareth in Galilee (can anything good come from Nazareth [John 1:43-46]).

**Related verses**: Mark 6:2-6, Luke 4:23-30. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3324176571292181199)


## MRK 6:13

Anointing with oil had already began. It wasn?t something the church started. Jesus had began it before.

Even back in the Old Testament

**Related verses**: MARK 6:13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2875607859268935950)


## MRK 6:3

Offence can totally blind you from receiving from the servant of God.

As can be seen by this verse and in the parable of the sower

**Related verses**: MARK 6:3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2875605498798530790)


## MRK 6:3

I found that this was intended to be an insult. As I read in the notes, a Jewish man was never referred to as his mother?s son even if she was a widow.

He was ridiculed in his hometown where he was meant to be a blessing.

We never heard about Joseph anymore after he went to the temple in Jerusalem at 12 years old. Perhaps he had died afterwards. If Joseph actually died, then Jesus must have been at least 18 years because this scripture mentions that Jesus had at least six siblings.

**Related verses**: MARK 6:3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2875604219795857624)

