
---
title: "MRK 7"
date: 2019-12-23 08:58:15 +00:00
book: MRK
draft: false
---

## MRK 7:7

The scriptures carry more weight and references than any tradition that could ever be. Unfortunately, one problem plaguing Christianity is giving it man-made traditions equal value to the scriptures or even more value. This can be seen in a lot of Christian sects. This nullify the word of God and renders it less-effective

**Related verses**: Mark 7:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3325541973372953413)


## MRK 7:20

The progression from Genesis 2 where God created man and animals and instructed them to eat plants until their fall.

After the flood, some plants would have taken time to develop but God now accepted me San to eat of any and every animal not mentioning clean or unclean until the time of Moses.

How did Noah know the clean and unclean animals to pick because we only found out about it in exodus but Abraham had already been sacrificing clean animals even in the time of Abel they probably knew what was clean and unclean.

Clean animals both chew the cud and divide the hoof. 

Chewing the cud is a matter of doing whereas splitter hoof is a matter of being (what I am).

Chewing the cud talks of meditating on the word of God until it becomes part of us

Having a splitted hoof is being separated [from the world]. Except a man is born again (reborn) he cannot see or enter into the kingdom of God.

It has never been about the food I eat physically.

**Related verses**: Genesis 2:16, Genesis 7:2, Genesis 9:3, Leviticus 11:3, Joshua 1:8, Mark 7:18-20, John 3:3. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3597490230838157927)

