
---
title: "MRK 9"
date: 2020-12-21 10:11:04 +00:00
book: MRK
draft: false
---

## MRK 9:7

The testimony of the father was confirmed in the Jordan River where Jacob wrestled with an angel after he crossed it and received a blessing.

The Jordan was also where Jesus received the anointing after being baptized. The Jordan was also where Elisha had received the double portion of the anointing when they divided it and crossed on foot.

The father also testified on the mountain. John the Baptist the first witness, the three disciples (Peter, James and John), the second witness.

The earthly witness in Jordan River and the divine witness on the mountain.

**Related verses**: Mark 9:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3589396983007929218)


## MRK 9:4

Representative of the law and the prophet and a reminder that the era is to be replaced with the new covenant. Just like Moses and Elijah ended their ministry, their appearance also confirmed that it was time for the Messiah to depart.

The important feature here is that there was transference of Spirit and leadership was already appointed in these three instances of Moses, Elijah and Jesus departing.

Moses died, Elijah ascended, Jesus died and ressurected.

Jesus was a combination of both 
- Elijah and Moses
- Elisha and Joshua (both names mean saviour)

**Related verses**: Mark 9:4. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3589393589925045113)


## MRK 9:2

Jesus led them to BE ALONE. They had the privilege to witness the kingdom of God in great power

**Related verses**: Mark 9:2. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3184102349191504484)


## MRK 9:12

Elijah always comes to clear the way before restoration comes. Elijah comes to prepare the way before salvation.

Elijah was taken way then Elisha comes. John the Baptist before Jesus. Yet Moses and Elijah will come in the last days before the Messiah appears again.

Jesus suffered grief, physical distress, was despised and rejected.

**Related verses**: Mark 9:12. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3591452766897954830)


## MRK 9:24

Compassionate God

**Related verses**: Mark 9:24. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3590010370901401651)

