
---
title: "MAT 1"
date: 2020-06-25 02:32:38+00:00
book: MAT
draft: false
---

## MAT 1:21

Joseph needed to name Jesus for Jesus to be legal on earth. everything that God created was given a name and remained under his dominion. everything that was kept under the dominion of man was given a name by man.

Name reveals attributes and personality and Jesus being named by Joseph gave him the personality as saviour. The angels couldn't name Jesus so a man had to do it. The name was from God but it had to be made legal on earth through the words of a man.

it is legal to name something you built or brought forth so Joseph needed to remain with Mary so he could name Jesus legally

**Related verses**: Matthew 1:21. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3459431389383615448)


## MAT 1:23

an inspiration to modern medicine that a woman can have a child without physically being involved in a sexual art

**Related verses**: Matthew 1:23. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3459425449099912105)


## MAT 1:17

the first 14 generations was for the initiation and completion of a new covenant

the second 14 generations was the breaking and punishment of the previous covenant

the third 14 generations is the initiating of a new and everlasting covenant

**Related verses**: Matthew 1:17. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3459422467218203534)


## MAT 1:21

Jesus main aim was to save people from their sins. The sin which leads to death and eternal separation from God and a life of everlasting punishment.

Even the meaning of his bane reflects his purpose. Because Jesus was winless, it was impossible for the devil to have a foothold on him

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 1:21. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2690640629843354589)


## MAT 1:21

Jesus name was divinely appointed even before he was born. Everything about Jesus was planned already. 

Only Mary was informed about God's plan and until Joseph decided to take a decision contrary to God's plan did an angel of the Lord appear to him.

Jesus assignment was to save people from their sins and that is what his name means (Saviour). 

God must know sin is very deadly otherwise there will be no need for Jesus to come into the world

**Related verses**: Matthew 1:21. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2487234224164954509)


## MAT 1:20

Living apart of each other before marriage
Mary was still pledged to be Married to Joseph. Although Joseph is called her husband. They had not yet started living together

**Related verses**: Matthew 1:20. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2487232374242009477)

