
---
title: "MAT 26"
date: 2020-05-18 05:14:44+00:00
book: MAT
draft: false
---

## MAT 26:40

Jesus had said where two or three are gathered in his name, the father would answer the prayers. On this principle, Jesus took Peter, James and John so they could intercede for him not to face the suffering on the cross.

Jesus returned to his disciples to receive confirmation of his answered prayer but the answer was no, they were all sleeping so prayer couldn't be answered. Jesus went the second time after encouraging them to pray and then he saw them sleeping again so answer was no,

He went to pray a third time and received confirmation of his prayer. The cup of suffering would not be taken away from him because he found the disciples sleeping and no one was awake to join in his prayer.

But an Angel came to strengthen him so he could endure the suffering to come.

**Related verses**: Matthew 18:19, Matthew 26:36-46. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3431971502429037462)


## MAT 26:13

She gained a memorial in the gospel. She also gained another memorial for being the first to proclaim that Jesus was risen.

Love has a reward

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 26:13. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2859642748041683213)


## MAT 26:4

The main reason why they didn?t want to kill Jesus wasn?t because they feared God. It was because they feared the people that there will be a riot.

This is religion. Thinking what you think is good is acceptable to God.

They wanted to help God to eliminate a threat because they considered Jesus himself a threat. As long as the teachings of God doesn?t align with their belief and it never did, they became angry and agitated.

Unfortunately, they didn?t really know who God is that is why even though God was among them, they still wanted to kill him. In the end, it all boils down to a personal relationship to know who God is.

Just some verses after, we see Mary, Lazarus sister show what truly a relationship with God should be.

She spent so much that even the disciples of Jesus considered it a waste of money. Somehow Mary knew that it was necessary to anoint Jesus body for burial.

While some people were planning to kill Jesus, someone somewhere was thinking of what to do to please God

**Related verses**: MATTHEW 26:4-5. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2859628856045461516)


## MAT 26:41

If we heed to the flesh, we won't do anything for God.

**Related verses**: Matthew 26:41. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2623561517283139602)


## MAT 26:39

Prey for his will. Not our will

**Related verses**: Matthew 26:39. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2581528463140447148)


## MAT 26:7

Jesus
Jesus was anointed about three times. One by the Holy ghost after baptism(Luke 3:22). Then his feet was anointed in Bethany by a woman by the name of Mary the sister of Lazarus six days before the passover(Matthew 26:7, Mark 14:3). The third anointing came also from an unnamed woman in Galilee who anointed his feet (Luke 7:37-38). This is a bit complicated for me. Need to come back to this later

This reminds me of Psalms 23:4-5 where it says: You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies

**Related verses**: Matthew 26:7. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/2472511679163523223)


## MAT 26:55

Day after day Jesus taught in the temple

**Related verses**: Matthew 26:55. See [notes](https://my.bible.com/notes/3543013988412154847)

